Today we are building a full stack AI
testing automation agent using NexJS,
React, AI, GitHub and browserbase. This
app allow user to connect their GitHub
repository, let AI analyze the source
code, automatically generate the smart
test cases, create a browser automation
script and then run those test inside
the real cloud browser using browser
base. Basically, we are building our own
AI powered QA automation platform from
scratch where AI understand your app,
write the test steps, execute them in a
real browser and shows pass or fail
result with a detailed log. This is a
perfect project if you want to learn AI
agent, Nex.js fullstack development,
GitHub integration, browserbased
automation, automated testing, pre write
style script and real world SAS
architecture. By the end of this video,
you will have a production ready AI
testing automation agent that can
generate and run AI powered test case
automatically. So let's build this
powerful AI testing automation agent
using NexJS AI and browserbase. Before
start implementing let me walk through
the application demo which we are going
to build in this video. If you see we
have this beautiful landing screen and
this landing screen itself saying that
you have to connect your repo and then
AI will test your application. Pretty
cool, right? And it also mentioned the
complete workflow how this AI testing
automation will work and all the
features. Now simply sign in to the app
and then you will redirect it to the
workspace. Once you jump onto the
workspace very first time it will ask
you to connect your GitHub account. Now
you will learn how to authenticate your
application with a github with a github
o uh hdk and then once you authenticate
then you will learn how we can fetch all
the users repo u list inside our app so
that user can easily search it and then
whichever repo user want to add for the
testing they can select and simply click
add. As soon as you click add, you will
see your repo is now added. Inside this,
if I expand this option or expand this
particular repo, you will see an option
to configure your project domain. Now,
on which domain or website you want to
run this test cases, you have you can
configure easily through this project
config. Simply enter the URL.
So in this case I will paste the URL
inside the global test instruction. You
can add uh any instruction which you
want to give or your uh demo username
password so that this test case easily
access your uh authenticated pages and
once you are happy with it simply click
save config. After that you will see a
status card that once you generate the
test cases you will see the total count
and once you execute you will say how
many are pass how many are fail and
total passing rate. Now here you also
have option to generate the test cases
for this repo. If I click on it, it will
start generating the test case. It will
read you a complete repo the each code
and then AI will automatically generate
the test cases something like this. If
you see currently it generated seven
test cases because I limit it up to
seven test case but you can increase
that limit then each test case has the
title and the description also this test
case belong to which type whether this
is API this is the integration one and
this is a UI one this is the
authentication one like that not only
that but if you open any test case you
will see some more detail which you have
option to update it like test title
test description, what is the target
route? So here this target route it
fetches from the GitHub file tree and
then what is the expected result once
you run or execute this test case. Now
we once we select the test case which
you want to execute and then run it then
it will automatically
pass all of this information to the AI
so that AI will automatically execute
the proper script and that script we can
pass it to the browser base pretty cool
right now let's test some examples so
over here so over here I will select
this test case or whichever test case
you want just select those and
You can simply run the test case. You
can select all of them as well. And once
you click run test case, you will see uh
this dialogue where you will see a
proper target website URL option to
update. Then here you will find an
option called execution option. Here you
have two different mode. One is the run
catcher mode where once you generate the
test script you can execute the old one
or if you want to add some custom
command while generating you can simply
add it and uh uh change this mode to the
AI. So AI will generate the updated
script in order to execute it. Okay.
Then on the left hand side you will see
the selected test cases and then once
you click start execution it
automatically start executing your test
case. So right now if you see it start
running and it's generating the test uh
script as well. Now automatically it
will start executing using a browser
base on the cloud. Okay in a real
browser. So we'll wait and if you see in
out of these two test case one is fail
once you click on it on the right hand
side you will see why it fails and
everything. So currently it's navigating
to this page and it tried to locate this
particular toggle button but it might be
missing but the another one is pass. So
in second one it just checking whether
the sign-in page is getting rendered or
not. And this test case you will see
complete step-by-step log. Pretty cool,
right? And that's how the test execution
will uh take place. Now, not only that,
but with the help of browserbased
integration, this test case is rendering
on the cloud in a real browser. And once
you execute it, you can even watch the
recording. So here we added an option
called watch recording which will
navigate to the browserbased um page and
then it will show you the live recording
of the website. So if I play this
you will see our application will get
open and here we have the sign-in page
for that one. Okay. So that's how uh it
make sure that you are all the step
whatever is the mention in the script is
executing and you can verify by watching
this recording as well and once you are
happy you can close it. Now whichever
the test case is failed you can make the
changes accordingly inside your
application and then select that test
case run the test case and in that case
the script is already generated so it
will run the catcher one but if you want
to give any extra instruction then you
can select AI generate add those
instruction and then AI will generate a
new script otherwise you can use the
existing run catches script which make
the test execution much faster.
Now
if you see I already have some of the
example which I want to show you. So in
this case I run the total six test cases
out of the two are pass and four are
fail. So the passing rate is 33% and you
will see which one are pass which one is
fail. We also have the credits uh system
where depends on the your u repo count
as well as how many test case you
generated how many are executed it will
automatically detect the credits from
the account every detail information and
implementation guide. Uh it's explained
properly inside the project. We are
going to write each uh project's code
line by line. This is not a wipe coding
tutorial. This is a complete full stack
tutorial where we are building this AI
uh testing automation agent from the
scratch. Throughout the project, we are
going to learn how this AI test
automation work. I'm going to show an uh
a complete application workflow in a
step-by-step way with the proper mockup
to implement and then also give you the
quick code to copy paste it sometimes if
needed. Everything is mentioned. This
eraser documentation is also available
in the description. Now the most
interesting uh text which we are going
to use is a browser base. Browserbase
will give you your agent to access the
whole web. It provide a lot of different
feature and lot of big IT companies
using the browser base like the API like
search API, fetch API or browser as a
service. There are lot of different use
cases you will find uh and you can
implement with the browser base
with their uh playground inside the
browserbased dashboard. You can test the
script, you can run it, and you can see
a live uh execution of your test cases
as well. Everything I'm going to explain
and teach you how to integrate this
browser base inside your application and
make an powerful AI testing automation
agent. Make sure to click the link in
the description in order to sign up to
get some free access with the browser
base. This complete project we divided
into a small chapters and for each of
the chapter we are going to create a new
branch inside the GitHub repo and then
we are going to push our code. For each
branch we are going to create a pull
request where with the help of plan.dev
we are going to review each of the PR
and then you can uh see all the uh code
changes summary as well as the inline
comment for the suggestion and from the
planog.dev dev dashboard you can find
the NEPS summary anytime everything is
mentioned inside the plan.dev
also plan as a feature where you can
simply enter your project idea it will
uh give you the tech tag options and
then it will start generating the
feature and the to-do or task for you.
After that you can simply copy the
prompt and simply enter inside your
favorite ID. You can also test each of
the feature implemented by the AI ai
coding agent and then you can see the
complete instruction. This is a perfect
package for those who really want to
build an application. Uh and this is the
tool which I build it for you also. If
you want to um get any source code
access then you can join to the cube.com
where you'll get all the source code and
the project as well. You can track any
project chapter by chapter each project
divided into a small chapter so that you
can easily track it out. Simply go to
the tubey.com and join the membership.
Now if you want to manage your own
personal task habits, so I created this
task bearer AI um agent app for you
where you can track your daily task. You
can track your daily routine habits and
not only that but you can also add your
family member and then you can assign
the task for them. And to track any of
my website or your website you can try
this web tracking app. This is the tool
which I created for you. Simply add your
domain and then uh enter the small
script inside your project source code
and then it will automatically start
tracking your complete website. It will
give you where the all the um content or
uh visitors coming from from which
country which browser what are the URL
and the most interesting you'll get an
AI insight. You can even track your uh
earning through the web tracking.
Everything
uh content in the web tracking. It's
free to use. Give a try. I will put the
link in the description.
So guys, without doing any further
delay, let's begin to develop a AI
testing automation agent. But if you are
new to this channel, don't forget to
subscribe, press notification bell icon,
and don't forget to like this video.
Now in order to create a react neckj
app, we are going to use this new boiler
plate which I recently created which
call a fast neckjs app. This boiler
plate contain all the text stack which
you need like for styling and UI. You
can use either telin css, chation, daisy
ui or fly on ui. For a database you have
bunch of option like superbase, neon, a
posegate, sql along with the drizzle o
or even firebase fire store and for
authentication we have cler next or
borot and for payment and email as well
and it's very easy to create this boiler
plate. So in order to use it you can
simply copy this npx or npm command then
open a terminal at the folder where you
want to create this project.
and then simply paste the command which
you copied which is npx create fastjs
app and then hit enter then it will ask
do you want to proceed we'll say yes
and then you have to enter your project
name so we'll say AI
test automation
agent okay then hit enter and then you
have option to Select the styling
framework whether you want telvin CSS,
shadian or any other. So I will select
the shadian. We'll hit enter. Then you
have option to select a database. Now in
this uh particular project we are going
to use a posgate SQL database with the
help of neonb and the drizzle OM. And
for the authentication, we'll go with
the clerk authentication because we want
to keep our um production and
development faster. And clerk has a lot
of predefined UI component and it also
free. So we'll select the clerk. Then
for a payment gateway, if you want to
add a payment gateway right now, you can
add it or you can add it later on. But
for now, let's select the tribe. Uh in
future, I will add more payment uh
gateway option in this boiler plate. And
then for email sender, uh we'll skip it
for now. So we'll say none. Then which
package manager you want to use? If you
want to use npm, pnpm, you can select
that. I will go with the npm. And then
uh do you want to initialize the g repo?
Right now we'll say no. And then do you
want to install npm package right now?
Right. So we'll say yes. And right now
if you see it started installing the
dependencies. And once the project is
successfully uh installed along with the
dependency, you will see a success
message as well. and then you're ready
to jump inside the project. So now you
can use a VS code or Google anti-gravity
for this project to open. I will go go
with anti-gravity. And then inside that
we'll open our project.
And here you'll see some of the files
and folder present inside your project.
Let me walk through each one of them
quickly. So we'll understand what the
boiler plate contain and depends on our
selection only that u template or code
is added to your app. Now at the first
we have this app folder and inside the
app folder we have API signin signup
page along with uh default page.tsx
file. Now when we run your application
you will see this page.tx file will get
rendered. Then we have layout.tsx tsx
file which is the root layout which
contain a metadata of for your
application. Now obviously this is very
important for the SEO purpose but you
can update with your own metadata. So it
will help us to rank your website uh on
Google. Then we have the
u HTML body tag through which all the
pages are going to render. Then we have
global CSS which contain all the uh CSS
applied throughout your application. So
you can mention directly inside the
global CSS. Now this already have the
some root variables as well. If you see
that is because with the help of shad CN
UI component library we have all of
these color uh variables. Then we have
the sign in and signup page which is
added by the clerk authentication. and
then this API for the stripe checkout
and webbook. Okay. Now, whichever API
endpoint you want to write, you can put
it inside this API folder. Now, next
thing we have the component folder.
Inside the component, if you see, we
have these two chats component file,
which is a button.tsx and card.tsx file.
After that we also have a DB uh
initialization as we selected the new
ongget SQL database. So inside the
index.tsx you will see the
initialization of uh DB and the DB
reference is exported so that you can
use it throughout the application. Then
we have schema.ts file which already
have the two uh table. Right now we
don't need this post table. So we'll
remove it. But inside the user table
we'll save all the user information like
once user sign in then we want to save
user email ID and all the information.
After that we have the lift folder.
Inside the lift we have the stripe.tss
initialization along with we have the
tailwind CSS initialization as well.
Then we have node module folder.
Obviously we are not going to touch this
folder at any time. After this we have
this env file. Now inside the EN file
whichever environment variable you need
to run this project is mentioned like we
need a database URL from the neon. Then
we also need a clerk publish publisher
key and the secret key which we will
generate from the clerk uh dashboard.
And then if you want to integrate the
stripe payment gateway then we need a
stripe secret key along with the webbook
secret and the publisher key. Okay. Now
the env example is similar to env you
can delete one of them. Uh you can
delete obviously this example. Then we
have the component.json which contain a
sharing related configuration. We have
drizzle config for the drizzle
configuration to connect your uh
database along with to the drizzle o.
Then we have middleware.ts. Now this
clerk middleware file um which contain
all the code. But now this changed to
the proxy.ts. So if I rename this to
proxy then it it will uh it will update
with the new version. Then we have next
config.ts file which contain a
configuration related to your NexJS
application. The package.json which
contain all the packages along with the
script to run and build your
application. If you see all the
dependency like clerk neon stripe and
many other and then we have
telin.config.ts
file. Okay. Currently I have for this
particular um boiler plate it feel like
it's using a tailwind CSS version 3.
Okay. But you can update to version 4.
It's totally up to you. Now let's run
this application. So I will go to the
terminal. Click new terminal. Type
command npm runde and then your
application will run on local host 3000.
Simply open it and you might get an
error and it's saying the publisher key
is not valid. Currently inside our env
file you will see the clerk publisher
key is not the correct and we need to
generate that because inside our
layout.tsx file we have to make sure
we'll wrap our application inside the
clerk provider so that our app can be
protected. Okay. But adding a clerk,
publisher key is important. So in order
to get the key, click the link in the
description to get a free access to the
clerk. And then uh once you jump on this
site, you will see all the services and
feature available by clerk. Clerk
provide a lot of different feature and
clerk is one of the best and topmost
authentication service provider in the
market. So I will go to the dashboard
and we'll create a new application.
So let's go to the application and
inside that we'll click create app. Then
give the application name. So we'll say
AI
testing automation
agent
and then simply click create app. Now
you can select whichever signin option
you want. You can select like GitHub,
Apple, Facebook or any other. Then on
the right hand side you will see the
actual preview how how it actually look
once you implement it and then simply
click create application. Once the
application is created make sure to
select the NJS and then you can copy the
publisher and the secret key. After that
I will go to the env file and then I
will replace this placeholder with the
actual key and then save it. And once
you add you will see our application is
now running. Okay. So that's how uh you
have to create your clerk authentication
and add this key inside your MV file. If
you any question any doubt related to
creating your NJS application with the
help of this fast neckjs boiler plate
let me know in the comment section
because next thing we need to show this
sign in and signup page. So right now if
I go to the sign in or sign up page you
might see this error that's because we
did not wrap your our application inside
the clerk provider. Okay. So uh and once
we had the authentication uh setup then
we are going to save all the sign in and
sign up user to our database as soon as
he's sign up to our app. Okay. And we
also going to set up a database for
that.
Now in order to set up a database our
boiler plate have all the integration
only thing that we need is a database
URL and in order to generate this neon
portgate SQL database URL you should
navigate to the neon.com and here simply
create a new account once you create
account or if you don't have obviously
create otherwise you can simply sign in
and then create a new project if you
don't have already And then here uh once
you have the project on this dashboard
page you will see an option called
connect. Click on it and then I will
just click on create new DB. Give the
database name
and then simply click create. Once you
create it you will find a connection
string. If it's not there you can simply
click on this dropdown and copy this
connection string. Then head back to the
Google anti-gravity or in your app and
then simply paste this code and save it.
As simple as that. And now your database
is ready.
Now next thing in order to push all of
these schema because inside the schema
we have the user table and inside the
user table we have these four different
column like ID, name,
email and created ad. In order to push
it, you just need to type a command npx
drizzle kit push.
Okay, which will push your uh schema
file. And right now once you push it,
you will see this message called changes
applied. Then you can run npx drizzle
get studio command. Now this studio
command will run uh the database locally
uh means in a local uh studio. Okay,
obviously it is connected to the neon
only but you can see all your tables
which is available uh under your
database. And here we have user table
along with these four column. Pretty
cool, right? So that's how you have to
set up your uh database. Now next thing
let's uh make sure our clerk
authentication is workable. So what you
need to do you simply go to the
layout.tsx file and then wrap your app
inside the clerk provider. Something
like this. Okay. Once you wrap it you
can go back to the local host and then
click go to the signin page. Okay. And
then you will see this beautiful UI
component ready which has the email
password and option to sign in with the
GitHub and Google. The same signin
option which we selected while creating
this clerk app inside the clerk
dashboard. Pretty cool right? You can
manage this social sign on from the uh
dashboard as well. So under the clerk
dashboard we have the configure section
and inside the configure you will have
you will see this SSO options.
um click on this add connection and then
you can add whichever connection you
want. Okay. So here currently only we
have two social sign on but you can add
more. So that's all and that's how you
have to connect your clerk
authentication. Now whenever users sign
in very first time we have to make sure
that user information will save to our
database and for that we are going to
simply create a new API endpoint and
inside that we'll create a users or
first um create a folder called users
and inside that we'll create route dot
tsx file inside this
simply add export put
a sync function and this will be the
post request. So we'll say post and then
request with the type next request. You
have to give the type okay which help us
to protect uh with not is complete valid
data. Okay. And we are using a type
script. So it's mandatory to give the
type for each of the variable. Then
inside this
we need to get a users login
information. So here we'll say constant
user is equal to await and then we'll
say current user. Now this current user
we are importing from the clerk neckjs
server. After that we'll add a try catch
block
with a exception e. And then inside this
oop sorry inside this try block we'll
simply say constant
user. Now first we'll check if user is
already exist or not right. So in order
to do it we need to connect or we need
to call u to the user table in order to
take check. So we'll say DB. Now make
sure to import this DB reference from
the um DB table right because we have
the drizzle already there and then we'll
say dot select here we'll say from and
give the table name so in this case a
user table
after this oh this need to be
user table let me see that supposed to
be from the schema oh that is correct
because this is the TB reference so
we'll say users
and it's called users only. And then
we'll say
dot where and then we need to add a
condition. Okay. So inside that we'll
say equal to
and then we'll add users
dot email.
Somehow this users is not imported. So
let me see why. So I will go to the
schema.ts ts file. Oh, the reason is uh
we already have this constant user. So
we'll say user result I will define as
user result. And now we'll say users dot
email. Okay, which matches. So we'll say
equal to with the user dot primary email
address dot email address because this
is the user information we need to u
compare with the table information.
Okay. And here if it's not there we'll
add empty string otherwise we'll get an
error. And then once we have the user
result here we'll check condition if
user result is equal to equal to or
we'll say user result.length is equal to
equal to zero means you we don't have
that user information in the database.
It means we have to add a new user. So
we'll say new user is equal to await db
dot insert and then we'll need to insert
into a user table dot values and inside
that we need to add user email. So we'll
say user dot primary email address and
the user name as well.
Okay. So that's how we have to save user
information. Once you add, make sure to
return u the added record and then at
the end we'll say return next response
dot JSON and then you can simply write
user to new user of zero. Okay, we have
to add a zero element otherwise. So
we'll say else
return next response dot JSON. It means
we already have the user information
then you can
return the uh existing user data like
this and then save it. If you are
getting any error so we'll say console
log with a error message and save it. So
that's how your user API endpoint is now
ready. Now once your API endpoint is
ready now we'll go to the app folder and
inside the app folder we'll create a new
file inside this app root directory. So
we'll call it as a provider
and we'll keep this provider on the
client side. First let's add a default
template. Now if if you see right now um
if you want to add default template you
have to uh add it or write it manually.
But there is one extension called React
Redux snippet tool. So I will just go
ahead and I will going to install this.
Okay. So we'll say install here. We will
say trust publisher and install. And
then it will install inside your uh ID.
Okay. It help a lot. And I will show you
how it actually works. Once it is
installed, you can simply write a
command let's say RFC which stand for
React functional export component. Hit
enter and boom you will see the default
template is ready. Okay. After that I
will just rename this to a provider with
a capital P and then save it. Now inside
this provider I will render the
children. Okay. And then we'll provide a
type for this children as well. So if I
go to the layout.tsx
you can copy everything as it is and
then you can paste it here.
Okay. And inside the provider now you
can render the children. Now here you
can write a logic and you can keep that
on the client side and we'll keep the
layout on the server side. So this
children will wrap inside this provider
like this.
Okay. And now from the layout it will go
to the provider and inside the provider
we have the children. And now our
children will get rendered. inside this
provider as I say in order to make this
component as a client you need to write
at the top use client and then save it
after this you can simply add a methods
we'll say constant
create new user if it's not exist right
and then inside that we need to call our
API endpoint now in order to make an API
endpoint or HTTP call we'll need one
package package called npm i aios. Axios
is a http client package in order to
make a get request, post, put request,
right? So all the crude operation. So
here now we'll say constant result is
equal to await a xios dot post
and then inside that we'll define / ai/
user. So we need to give the user
endpoint. So it should be users. Okay.
And if you don't have any body you can
just leave it as a empty as we are using
a so we need to mark this um method as a
async.
After this we'll get some result. You
can console this result to verify and
then save it. Now this create new user
we need to call as soon as we load this
component.
So over here
I will paste this create new user and we
need to make sure it will execute only
once. So I added this empty string for
this use effect. Okay. Now right now we
are just consoling. So we'll check
whether our user information is getting
saved or not. So once you save uh we'll
go back to our app and then right now if
you see it's saying can't resolve
schema. So maybe there is something
missing.
Oh, so inside the dbindex.tsx file. So
if I go to the
index.tsx file, this file name is ts not
js. Oh, you can just remove the
extension. Uh you don't need that. And
then save it. And right now if I log in,
so let's log with some uh any account.
And then once you loging, it will
redirect.
And then inside the console, we'll see
the result. So if I go to the console
right now uh if you see it giving us an
error saying 500 error it means we have
error um on the API side. Now in order
to see this API error you can go to the
application where application running
and inside that you can check the error
why we are getting this error. So right
now it's saying the cannot read property
of undefined. Okay for that particular
column. So that's where we have some
error. So let's see what why we are
getting this. So I will go to the
route.tsx file and here
let me import the users and then save
it. So if you see now we are importing
the user from the DB schema. I think
that is the one of the reason it was not
working. But if I refresh this screen
okay so we have a handshake issue again
and just refresh it properly. And now if
you see we got the result. Okay. Now
inside the result dot data you will see
a user information though whichever uh
user is sign in right that information
is saved and that is returned. If I go
back to the database so you can go to
the result studio and you will see that
user email id. If I refresh this page
again right it will only return the
data. It will not insert a new record.
It will only give you the existing
record and that's what we wanted. Now
let's say you want to add one more
column called credits because inside our
SAS application we want we want to give
some free credits to the user so that
they can test our application.
Now the question is how to add that
column. Now in order to add that column
simply go to the schema where we have
the user table defined and inside that
you can simply add let's say credits.
Okay. And then you can add an integer
with the column name credits. And then
you can add default with the not null.
Make sure to import this integer from
the PG core. Okay. So it should be
imported. Um right now this ID is a
only ID where we are using uh we are not
adding any clerk ID. It's auto
incremental. But uh for the credits you
can also provide some default value.
Let's say you want to give default to
thousand credits and it should be not
null and then save it. Now once you
define this obviously you have to push
your uh schema file. So I will stop the
result studio and then I will run result
kit push command. So it will push the
changes and then it will say changes
applied and if I refresh it you will see
that new column. Let me run the studio
again. So once you make the change you
can run the studio. So it will run and
right now if you see the default credit
2,00. So that's how you have to set up
your DB and update the column if
required and also we save the user
information. Now obviously if I refresh
it you also get a credit information in
the return. So over here you'll see the
credits. Now obviously throughout the
application we don't need to call this
API endpoint or user API endpoint every
time right so once we call it we want to
share this information across the
application the question is how and
that's where the u use context play very
important role use context is the react
hook which is a state management um hook
in order to um share your data across a
multiple components and it's very easy
to define so let me show you how so
inside the root dire directory we'll
create a new folder called context and
all the context we can keep inside the
context folder
inside that we'll create a user detail
context dot tsx file and then we'll
simply add export a sync function oh not
function sorry let me back here we say
export constant user detail context is
equal to create context make sure this
create context you are importing from
the react and then inside that you can
just pass null for now. Okay. And then
save it.
Once the context is created then you can
wrap your application inside this
context provider.
So let me go to this app inside the
provider.tsx
you can wrap we'll say user detail
context dotprovider
something like this. So what will happen
the idea is whatever the value we going
to provide inside this it will share
across all the pages and the components
okay throughout the application. Now
obviously you need to provide some
default value. So over here we'll define
a state called constant a user detail
with a use state. Okay. And I will
provide a type any for now.
And then whenever you get a result we'll
set the user detail with the result dot
data dot user because that's how we are
returning the value. And then you can
pass this user detail comma set user
detail
something like this.
So we have this error. So what we'll do
inside the context you can pass a type
any so that you'll not get that error.
Okay. And then save it. And that's how
um you can share your user detail
information which you fetch it from the
database across the different pages and
the component. Now one last important
thing I want to show there is a one or
there is lot of different clerk
component which you can use it inside
your application and one of them is a
user button. Now at for example let me
clean this out. So I don't want this
default page. So I will remove it and
then we'll add simple div and inside
this div we'll add a user button. Now
this user button if you see it's
importing from the clerk neckj. If I
save this and go back to our app you
will see this button at the corner. Now
if I click on it you'll see this
beautiful drop-down which is added by
the clerk UI component directly and here
you have option to manage your account
with all the setting. Okay. But a lot
similar to this they clerk also provide
a lot of different component which you
can explore on the clerk documentation.
But for now make sure your um project
along with the authentication and
database is set up.
Now after this we are going to push all
our code to the GitHub so that uh
throughout the project we are going to
create a separate branch for the new uh
chapter and then we are going to create
a pull request with the help of plan.dev
we are going to review our code using an
AI. Plano.dev is a tool which I recently
developed which help us to turn your any
project idea into an executable task.
Simply enter your idea and then it will
generate a proper structural u project
task for you. You can simply copy the
prompt and paste it inside your favorite
ID. Not only that but planark also
provide a feature to review your any
pull request or code using the plan arc
and that's what we are going to
integrate. It's free to use. So simply
click the link in the description to
join the plan. Then once you uh sign in
or sign up with the planer you will jump
onto the dashboard. On the left hand
side you will see all the uh option like
you can u explore your existing project
or if you want to add a new project
enter your plan idea then it will
automatically um get you the all the
text tag. You have option to select the
text tag then it will generate the
features um and then it will generate an
executable plan for you. Pretty cool,
right? And also is free to use. You can
connect your GitHub repo so that you can
enhance your existing project as well.
But right now in this project, we are
dealing with the code review because we
want to connect our um GitHub project to
this plan so that it will automatically
review our code. But before that, let's
go back to the github.com and inside
that we'll create a new repo. We'll give
the repo name AI
testing
automation agent. Then I will simply
click create repo.
Then set the remote origin. So I will go
back and inside the
our ID we'll initialize the G. Then
we'll set the remote origin. Go to the
source control over here. And then over
here we'll stage all of these change and
we'll give the commit message.
Then simply say commit and then publish
your branch as you are pushing it very
first time. So you can directly publish
to the main branch and then you will see
all your code it just now pushed. Okay.
Now simply once your GitHub repo has all
the code you can go to the plan arc and
then you have option to install this
plan. on inside your GitHub app and then
once it is installed you can simply add
a new repo. If your GitHub is not
authenticated first time so you have to
authenticate and then I will add the
repo. Then over here you either you can
give all repo access or you can give the
access to the specific repo. So in my
case we'll say AI testing automation and
if you see that repo is there. Now click
save
and then you'll jump back to this page
and you will see your repo is now
connected. Okay. Now currently it is
disabled but you can enable it and once
it is enabled now going forward whenever
you create a new pull request it will
automatically review with the help of
plan arc. Okay. So AI will start
reviewing that also. Over here you have
setting option. You can either run this
PR manually or you can run it
automatically. You can change this.
Also, we have a few setting which you
can update any time.
Once you have the PR ready, you can just
expand that and you will see all the PR
reviews and all the details uh properly.
Okay, I will show you once we have the
PR raise. But right now uh hopefully uh
you you connect this your GitHub repo to
the plan arc so that going forward we
can create a pull request and AI will
review our code.
Now first thing in our workflow we need
to implement the workspace layout.
Inside the workspace layout we have the
header option to connect to the uh
GitHub repo. So once you connect the
GitHub repo then we want to show the
that listed uh repo which you added and
if it's not there obviously we need to
show some empty state. So in this
chapter we'll focus on implementing the
workspace layout. So let's go back to
our application and first thing we'll
create a new route called workspace. So
inside the app folder we'll create a
workspace as a new route. And inside
that we'll create a page.tsx
file. Okay. And inside that we'll add a
default template. We'll name it as a
workspace. Now as this workspace or any
other route which come under the
workspace will be the protected one.
Okay. So it means uh only authenticated
user can access it. You can add it
workspace its own layout. So you can add
that. So we'll say layout tsx file and
then add a default template and we'll
name it as a workspace layout. Okay. And
then save it. Now inside that we are
going to add a children and we are going
to route all the workspace route through
this children something like this and
then save it. So obviously on the screen
if I go back to new route called
workspace
you can access that route. Okay. But in
order to protect from unauthorized user
you have to go to the middleware and
inside the middleware you have to
protect that route. So inside the clerk
documentation you will see how this
clerk middleware uh will use to protect
the route. Right? Uh if you scroll down
this is the protect routes uh example
that you can simply copy as it is and
then you can paste it inside the
middleware. Now if you see this is the
protected route it means the dashboard
or other things right. So in our case I
will replace this with a workspace and
all the workspace routes is protected
and we already have the condition to
protect that route. Now once you save
and if user is not login then user has
to uh login first then it automatically
redirected to signin page and once user
sign in or sign up then only he can see
the workspace route. Now let's add a
header at the top. So
we'll create a new component. So we have
the component folder and inside that I
will create a custom component as a new
folder. Inside this custom component,
we'll add a new file called workspace
header.tsx.
Then add a default template and then
save it. Once you add this workspace
header, you can import that inside your
layout file just above this children. So
we'll say
workspace header and then save it. And
after adding you will see the workspace
header text showing. Now let's go to the
workspace header and on the left we want
a logo.
So I will say logo. After that in the
middle we want a op menu options. So
here we will say menu options.
And on the right we want a user button.
Okay. Now in order to add a logo you can
simply add your own logo if you have or
you can for the logo placeholder I will
go to this logopm.com
and you can find whichever logo you
want. Let's copy one of the logo then
we'll go back to our app and inside the
public folder. So I will go to this app
and if you don't have public folder
don't worry uh just add public and then
we'll create a logo dotpng file and
inside that
you can paste the SVG which you copy for
the logo. Okay once you add it then
inside the workspace header you can
inside add that inside the image tag.
Make sure to import this image tag from
the next / image. Then the source and
then inside this we'll say logo.png.
Then inside the alt add a logo and then
we'll say width and height.
If I give width and height 100. So right
now if you see uh logo is not showing
because it's supposed to be a SVG file.
And I will rename this to SVG only.
Perfect.
And now if I refresh you will see that
logo. Now obviously you need to change
the width and height.
So if I make it bigger I think this is
pretty good. After that we need to add a
center menu option. So I will add a ul
tag and inside that we'll add la tag.
Here we'll say workspace.
Then the another uh option is add
pricing
and then support.
Now for the ul add a class name. We'll
make it flex. Then we'll make
gap to five. Okay. So it will be in one
line. Then you can mark the text as a
excel little bit bigger.
Oh, I don't know how I change this one.
uh this need to be at 200. Let's make it
200.
And we want in the same line, right?
We'll add it add that in in some time.
And below that we'll add a user button.
Perfect. Right. So now we let's bring
everything in one line. So for this do
we'll mark class name as a flex item or
maybe we can say justify or let's make
it flex first and then we'll say with
full
then we'll add a justify between and
let's add a padding to four. Okay. Now
sometimes when you write the tailwind
CSS classes you might get not you will
not get some suggestion. Right now in
order to get those uh suggestion from
the Telvin CSS classes you have to add
one extension uh inside your VS code or
Google anti which is tailwind CSS
snippet tool. So simply install this
extension which is quite popular
extension and once you install it then
when you write it you'll get the
suggestions and right now if you see we
have the logo and then the menu option
and the user button as well. Now
whenever I hover on any of these option
you can uh change the color. Okay. So
let's say uh on hover we want to change
the color to
green
and if I hover you'll see the color is
now changed to green. Okay, it's totally
up to you which color you want to show.
If you want to show a blue color you can
just search blue something like this.
And now it turned to blue. Okay. Now
also we have to make sure we'll change
the pointer to cursor pointer. So you
will see the pointer is also now
changed. You can copy this for all of
them. So whenever you hover on any of
these option you will see that color is
now changed. So user will see okay it
look like a selected one. So that's how
our header is now completed. Now let's
add a workspace
layout or bottom section. So for that
one
I'm going to simply create another
option here. We will say workspace
um body.tsx
let's add a default template for that
and then save it. Then that particular
workspace body you need to add inside
your workspace page. So I will go to the
workspace and inside the page.tsx we'll
add workspace body and save it. So we'll
make sure it display. Perfect.
Now after this we are going to add some
u margin. Okay. Now what we'll do
obviously it's very difficult to switch
between the uh different different u
browser and tab. So we can I can explain
like this. It's much better. So over
here we'll add a class name. We'll say
margin x2 at
maximum width to let's say 4 excel.
Okay. And save it. So on the smaller
screen obviously this will look smaller
only but here we'll add a padding to 10
and when I increase the screen size you
will see now this workspace body will
start from here okay it's totally up to
you uh how much maximum width you need
to give and based on the bigger screen
size it will automatically update it for
you as well okay now inside the
workspace body so let's go to this
component and Here
we'll add a H2 tag. Then inside this
we'll say workspace as a big text. So
we'll add a class name. We'll say text
to 2 Excel font medium and then save it
or make it 4 XL little bit bigger
and then just write to it. We want to
show a credit option. So we already have
the credit information, right? So let's
wrap this inside the due
and over here we'll add another S2 tag
and here we'll say remaining credits
and we want to show a user actual
credit. Now in order to get a user
detail so here we already have the user
detail inside the context. So we'll say
user detail is equal to use context
and then we'll say user detail context.
Now once you use this react hook we have
to mark this component on the client
side because any react hook we have to
set the component on the client side and
once you the context you have to provide
a context name and you have to
dstructurize the parameter which you
pass. And now we have the user detail
over here. We'll say user detail dot
credits. And then you will see the
credits. Perfect. Right now we want that
on the right side. So for this due we'll
make it flex. And then we'll make
justify between and vertically to be a
center. We'll say item to be in the
center.
Then
over here we'll add a class name and
we'll say a text
blue 700 or let's make it 800.
And then we want a background to be text
blue light background. Something like
this.
Oh, this need to be a background.
Or let's make it little bit lighter. So
over here
we'll say 100
and we'll give padding x to two and
round it to let's say large.
Okay. So that's how our credit will
look. Perfect.
Uh I think we have give the item to be
in the center. Okay. It is in center
hopefully.
And I think that's all uh about this
workspace thing. Now below that if you
carefully observe we want to give an
option to add a repo. So below this
we'll add a div. Now I want to show a
GitHub icon right similar like uh shown
inside this mockup. So you can download
this icon from anywhere. Uh currently
obviously we are using a Lucid icon but
Lucid did not provide this icon for us.
So basically you have to add it from any
free icon uh website for in for example
in this case I'm using this flat icon
and just search the icon which you are
looking for. So in this case we'll say
GitHub. Simply download it. It's
completely free. And once you download
it
then
I will copy this
and we'll put inside our public folder.
So I will keep this app open and then
we'll go to the public folder
and then paste it.
Now once you add that inside this we'll
say image
from the next slash image
and inside this we'll say source
and then we'll add a github
dotpng
then inside the al tag we'll say is
equal to
github
And we'll say width
to be
200.
Height
to be 200.
I think that's all we needed. I don't
know why we have this error.
Oh, we forgot to import this image from
the next / image and then save it. So
here you will see the GitHub icon. It's
too big. So we'll make this
40.
And here as well 40. After this u I will
add a class name with the margin top to
margin
top to five. Save this one.
And similar like our eraser doc if you
see this option after this we need to
add this text.
So we'll say s2 tag and we'll say
connect
github and add repo repository.
Then we'll add a class name
as a text large and then save it.
Now after implementing the workspace
layout now it's time to connect our app
with the users GitHub repo. Once user
click on the uh install or connect the
repo then it will simply navigate uh to
the GitHub to give authorization and
then we will save the access token. So
that that access token we going to use
it to fetch all the repo. Okay. So in
order to implement it uh from the GitHub
documentation we need to make a call to
authorize the user and then we'll get
the access token as well. Okay. So it's
very easy. So we'll implement it step by
step. First we'll request a user for a
GitHub identity. So this is the API
endpoint for that. So first thing we'll
go back to our application and inside
the API we'll create a new uh endpoint.
So here we'll call it as a GitHub
and inside the GitHub we'll say route.
TS5.
Now in that we'll say export
a sync
function and this is the get request. So
if you see this is the get request
right? So we have to call it get.
We don't need any parameter. But inside
that first we'll define a params
is equal to new URL
search
params and then
we'll add some of the variable. Let's
say client ID. Okay. So we'll say client
ID and these all the variable is already
mentioned here. So all of these you have
to add one by one which is required. So
client I oh sorry the client ID and then
we'll get the client ID from the
environment variable. So we say process
dot environment dot GitHub client ID.
Okay. Same way we have to add the
redirect URL. So you can go over here
and this redirect URL um parameter we
need to add
and we'll say process dot environment
redirect URL. Now it is very important
to add a scope. So if you see this scope
is important in order to fetch the data.
Now these some of the parameter is
optional. So you don't need to add it.
Okay. The state con challenge is a
recommended but again it's an optional
so you don't need to add anything but
scope is a mandatory so we'll add a
scope so that you will get an access so
here we'll say repo
read user okay because we just want a
read per permission from the um users
GitHub repo once you add that then we'll
say redirect
and we want to redirect user to that
particular authentication URL
So copy that and simply paste it here.
And then in the query parameter I will
provide dollar
params. That's all
here. Make sure to import this redirect
from the next /navigation.
So not from this we need to import it
from the next /navigation and then save
it. Now this particular API endpoint we
need to call inside our install button.
So I will go to this workspace body and
inside that we have this install button.
So maybe here we say plus add only
and I will wrap this inside the link tag
or obviously it will directly navigate
it. So it's totally up to you how you
want to handle it. Okay. So basically
let's create a method. So we'll say
constant
on
add repo
and then this on add repo we need to
call on the click of this button.
Now inside that obviously first we'll
authenticate if it's not authenticate
already. So we'll say constant
result is equal to a
exios.get
and /appi.github.
Now make sure to import this exio and I
will make this as a sync. Okay. And
that's all. We don't need to implement
anything. Now if I go back to our
application, let's refresh this page and
then click add.
So right now we are getting some error.
Let's see what is. Oh, so it's saying
the network error. So let's do one
thing. Um
so obviously uh instead of making this
exio call we will directly uh use a
router. So we'll say constant router is
equal to use router and make sure this
use router you importing from the next
/navigation.
Okay. And once you import it then here
we'll say router dot push and then we'll
say / ai/
github that's all okay now obviously we
don't have we did not add any client ID
and redirect URI but if I try to click
add button um oh let me see what is the
issue again let me refresh this.
So we again have an error. Oh, we forgot
to save this file.
Maybe let's refresh it and try add. And
right now if you see it's navigating to
the GitHub page, but it's saying the
client ID and redirect URI is missing.
Now the question is how to get those? So
simply you can log to your GitHub
account and then on the right hand side
you will see this profile icon. Click on
it and go to the setting. Under the
setting you will find an developer
option a developer setting. Click on
that and then you can add a new GitHub
app. Okay. So we click GitHub app. Then
once you authenticate to the developer
setting give the application name. So
here we say AI
uh testing
automation
agent. You can add a description if you
want. Now the for testing purpose
obviously we are using a local host. So
I will only add a local host 3000. Then
the callback URL we have to add.
Currently uh we don't have the call back
URL set up but right now we'll add API/
GitHub/ callback. Okay. So I will add it
like this for now. And then you can keep
everything as it is. Okay. So here I
will remove this web hook and then
simply click create GitHub app. As soon
as you create a GitHub app, you will
find this client ID. Okay. Copy this
client ID inside your env file.
So inside this env
I will paste it. But make sure you will
add this environment variable name
and redirect URI as well.
Something like this. Okay. We also need
to generate the secret key. Okay. in the
later on but for now let's keep only
these two files and for the redirect URI
you have to use this call back one okay
obviously we don't have API endpoint for
that but we'll add it later on and then
save it once you add it let's go back
and test this out so
I will just refresh this and then we'll
click add
and now if you see it ask my application
is asking for the permission Okay. So
once you authorize the permission, it
will return or it will go back to that
particular route. See the call back
route that we added and it also give you
one code. Now this code is very
important in order to generate the
access token. Okay. Now in the the next
step is obviously we have to generate
the access token and once we have the
access token we will save it in a
cookie. You can save it in our your
database as well. And every time when
you want to make an API request to the
GitHub, you can use that access token.
As simple as that. Okay. So what we'll
do now next step after um authenticate
we'll go to the next step which is u
redirect back to the site by the GitHub
and in order to generate this access
token. Right now
let's create the call back endpoint. So
inside the GitHub we'll create another
nested API endpoint route. So we'll say
call back and then we'll add a route. TS
file. Now inside this we'll add export a
sync function. Then this is a get
request and we'll say request next
request.
Inside this
we'll get the code first. So we say
constant code is equal to request dot
next URL dot search param
dot get and then we'll say code
and then save this file. Now if the code
is missing so here we'll add a condition
if the code is missing then we'll return
a next response.
um the suggestion I'm getting very late
but
we'll say response dot
redirect and then we'll say new URL
with the workspace
with an error okay and we can show some
error let's say missing code as a code
status here we'll say request dot URL
make sure to import this next response
response. So here we'll say next
response and once it is imported then
you're good to go. Okay. So here I need
to add one more
or this need to be inside this brace
only and then save it. But if you have
the code then you have to call that
particular API endpoint okay to this
access token. So copy that and here
we'll say resource await
is equal to fetch and then add this
string regarding the access token. After
that we'll say method as post because we
want to make a post request. Inside the
headers
we'll add a content type. So we'll say
content type as application /json
and then we want to accept
the application
/json only
over here this need to just space. Then
next thing after adding a header we want
to add a body. So inside the body you
will add JSON dot stringify
and then inside that you have to add a
client
id those parameter is already mentioned
here. Okay client ID client secret key.
So we'll say client ID as process dot
environment dot uh github client id.
Then we also want to add a client secret
key. So for the client secret key we
have to say process dot environment dot
github
client
secret
and then last we have to pass the code
which we got it and then save it. Now
obviously we don't have the client
secret key that we have to get it. So
inside your env file we'll save the
client secret key.
Okay. And in order to generate the
client secret key, you can go to your
uh GitHub developer setting and inside
that you will find an option under
client secret. You have to create a
generate a new client secret. Just click
on it, copy that client secret key and
then paste it here. After this, once you
paste it, now you have the client secret
key as well. Okay. Now this particular
fetch will result some data. So we'll
say constant data is equal to await
and then we'll say resource dot JSON.
Okay. So once we have the result from
the result we'll get the token. So we'll
say data dot access token. Now over here
inside the documentation you will find
how the response will get. So inside the
access token we'll get the uh the token
only. Okay that token you have to get
it. Once you have the access token then
you can save that. But if you don't have
the token so if there is a no token you
can simply uh return
some uh uh you can simply return the
next response dot redirect. So similar
like this one. So I will just copy that
and we'll paste it here.
But in this case instead of missing code
I will say token
exchange
fail.
Okay. And then save it. But once if you
have the token right
we can redirect user to the specific
page which means on the workspace. So
we'll say next response dot redirect and
then we'll say new URL
/workspace page. Okay. And then we say
request dot URL.
After this um whatever the token we get
it we have to store it in a cookie. So
here we'll say store token in http only
cookies.
So in order to store it we'll say
response dot cookies because from there
right whatever the URL is there um in
that URL's cookie it will save that
token. You can even save it inside your
database. So it's totally up to you but
while making any GitHub API call you
need that token. So we'll say GitHub
token
and then we'll
save that token. Okay. Obviously while
saving there are a couple of things we
need to add because we need to provide
the cookies expire time.
So here we'll say http as a true then uh
secure is equal to so here we'll say
secure
process dot environment dot node
environment as a production and we want
a 30 days. So you need to provide a
maximum age as a 30 days and then uh you
can provide
a path as a slash and then same site I
have to provide as lx and then save it.
So this will save your token uh inside
your cookies for 30 days and then inside
the return you can simply return the
response. Okay, something like this. And
then save. Now that's how you have to
save your token. Okay, so let's test
this out. So we'll go back to our
application where we got the token. And
obviously this token exchange is failed
because uh it's a old token, right? We
have to authenticate again and that's
why we get this message. So let's go to
the workspace, click add. Now we'll
authenticate and it look like we
authenticate successfully. Let me see if
we have any error. U
so we have a error which is the current
user that's different thing
but it look like it's saving. Uh you can
verify by going to our call back and if
you see in the call back we got the URL
and then get request and post. So you
can verify by going going to the inspect
panel. Then uh in order to verify
whether it's save or not go to this uh
inspect panel application and then under
the cookies you will see your website.
Now here either you can search it with
the uh GitHub token because that is the
name we give and you will see the GitHub
token for our um the access token which
is generated from the GitHub. Pretty
cool, right? And that's how you have to
uh authenticate the user. Now the
question is how can we know on the front
end side whether the we have the token
or not and depends on that we have to
change the button and all. Now another
important thing you can even save the
GitHub repo or user aar the name inside
your uh database. So quickly uh what we
are going to do if user is
uh don't did not connected our GitHub
account we'll change this method to
let's say setup okay and once it is
connected it means uh we need to check
whether the token is there or not so we
have to get the token first so we'll say
constant
cookie store is equal to await and then
here we'll say cookies. Okay. Now these
cookies you have to import from the next
uh slash headers and once you import it
here we have this await maybe we can
mark this as a sync function. So we
don't have that error. And now once we
have the cookie store so we'll say
constant
token is equal to
cookie store dot get and then you have
to provide that name. So we'll say
github token okay and then its value we
need to fetch. Now if there is a token
then
here we'll say if token is not there
then you obviously user have to
authenticate
right otherwise
we'll show another button here we say
add repo
and then close the tag and then save it.
Right now once you save you you will see
some error. Now this error it came
because we are trying to access the next
header on the client side because our
component or page is on the client side
and you cannot do that. So basically we
have to fetch the token on the server
side and then we have to uh get that uh
using some API endpoint. So uh inside
the API or maybe inside the GitHub only
we'll create uh again another endpoint
called token and then inside that we'll
create a route. TS file here we'll say
export
a sync
function
and we'll say get request next request
and the arrow function. Make sure to
import this next request. And then
inside this uh we're going to simply add
constant
cookie store is equal to await. Let me
copy the same one. So here we'll copy
everything as it is and we'll paste it
here.
Now you can import this cookie from the
next / header. And after this once you
have the token you can simply return in
the next response dot JSON
and maybe inside that you can say token
as token.
Make sure to import this next response
as well and save it. Now inside the
workspace body you can add
a method called constant get GitHub
user token is equal to error function
and then we'll say constant result is
equal to await
exos
we already have exos dot
get and then inside that we'll say /
ai/github
/ token
and then you can console this token for
now. So we'll say console.log
result
dot data dot token and then save it. And
obviously we have to save the token. So
we'll maybe can create
token set token is equal to use state
and then here we're going to simply set
the token as result
dot data dot token.
Now this get GitHub user token we need
to call inside the use effect whenever
this component load
and make sure to save this. Once you
save it
you can check this out. So we'll go to
the workspace page
and we'll go to the inspect.
Now here you don't need to mark a sync
because that's why we are getting this
error. And now if I go to this inspect
panel go to the console and you will see
the GitHub access token. Okay. So that's
how you have to get the user access
token. Now obviously once we have the
access token so you can easily fetch the
GitHub repo and then we're going to um
you give option user to add a GitHub
repo and everything. Okay, that we will
see in a moment. But for now, make sure
you are able to connect your application
to the GitHub and then you are getting
the access token.
Now, after this, we are going to push
our code. So, we'll create a new branch
and here we'll say
GitHub
connect.
Then we'll stage all of the change. And
here as well will say commit message
with the GitHub command. Make sure the
branch is checked out so that you can
simply
over here stage the file and then click
commit. And then don't forget to um
push your changes. After that you'll get
an option to connect or to create a pull
request. Simply click uh create pull
request and then once the pull request
is created plan arc will start reviewing
your code. See it started reviewing. So
just give a second or two and then you
will see the summary the key is to
double check right because we added the
environment variable ver verify the
client ID and client security are
correctly configured in the dep de
development uh or deployment environment
and everything and then suggested
improvement as well. So this plan will
give you the complete summary the things
to check it out and the improvement
suggestion. Then you will see the inline
comment as well properly mentioned one
by one. Um this is the medium one and
along with that you will see the what
the axios get call need to be typed
inside the track catch. If you get any
network error then it will catch it.
Obviously that's very good uh practice
to implement it. Okay. So in next in my
next PR going forward I will add that
and same thing you can just check each
PR command because that uh help a lot
and after that you can simply merge your
pull request once you are happy with it
click confirm and merge okay now inside
the plan.dev over here if I refresh this
you will see the three uh count and
inside the view report you will see this
complete report as well. So that's why
the plan arc is one of the best uh code
reviewing tool and um generating the
proper uh project task for you if you
are building any new project.
Now after this we want to get all the
repo and so that user can select the
repo from the list. We already have the
GitHub repo connected. The only thing
that we need to do is to fetch the
user's repo. So for that one inside our
application
uh when user click on add repo we are
going to show a dialogue and on the
dialogue user can select the repo. Now
in order to add a dialogue you can
simply going to add a shaden component.
The shaden is already included in our
neckj boiler plate but only thing we
need to install is a dialog component.
So go to the dialog component and inside
this we have this uh dialog command in
order to install it. So I will copy this
npm command. Just paste it here. So it
will add the dialog component.
So here we'll say yes to proceed and
then it will install the dialog
component for us. After this
we'll go to our workspace and inside
that we have workspace body. Right
now obviously once user click on add
repo we want to open that dialogue. So
we'll create a custom component and
we'll name it as
repo dialogue.tsx.
Then add a default template
and then save it. Now in order to use
dialogue first from this uh example you
can copy this dialogue import as it is.
After this you have to copy this example
and simply paste it here and then save
it. Now this is the dialog trigger which
will open the actual dialogue. Okay. Now
let's go to workspace and here
let me remove this add repo and instead
of this now we'll replace that with a
report dialogue. Okay. Now inside the
repo dialogue this is the trigger. So
we'll replace with this our own button
and then save both the file. Once you
save, if I go back to our application
and click on this add repo. Let me
refresh this
and click on add repo. Then you will see
this dialogue. Perfect. Right now let's
update the content for this dialogue. So
at the top uh I will change this
dialogue header and we'll add it as add
repository
and for the dialog description
we'll add search and select one of your
GitHub
repositories. this
and save it. So on the click you will
see this description. After that
we inside the dialogue content. So maybe
after this
I will add a simple div
and inside this div uh we want to show
the all the repo list. Okay. Obviously
currently we don't have the list of repo
but here we're going to add it and at
the bottom. So here we have dialog
footer. Let's import that dialog footer
and then inside this we'll add dialog uh
close button to close the dialogue. So
here we'll add a cancel button. So this
is how it look like. So if I add this
repo now somehow it's not reflecting. Oh
it's added in the cancel. That's where
maybe we need to add inside the content.
Let's see.
Yeah. So, here we have the cancel
button. And then we want to add another
button.
And here we'll say add.
Okay. Now we have add and cancel button.
For this we'll add a flex and we'll add
a gap to five. Okay. So you have cancel
button on the click of cancel. If you
see that dialogue is go away. Perfect.
Now as soon as you open this add repo we
need to make an API call in order to
fetch the repo. Okay. So uh from the
GitHub documentation inside that you
will find you can find how to connect it
or in order to search it quickly you
have this search. Okay. And Google
copilot will help you. So here we'll say
um
how to fetch
users GitHub repo users
GitHub repo
and then it will give you the proper
answer that how to implement and
everything. If you see we have to use
the uh GitHub user user repo but we
already authenticate. So we really don't
need to pass um the username but over
here if you see we have this endpoint to
which we need to make an API call to get
the current user
uh repolist. Okay. So what we can do we
can create a new API endpoint. So you
can create inside the GitHub only and
inside that we'll create a new file. We
call it as report and inside that we'll
create a route ts file. Now inside that
let's add export a sync function
and this is the get request. So we'll
simply going to call a get request
something like this. And then inside
that we'll say constant
cookies
store because we need to get uh the uh
access token right which we are saving
in cookies. So here we'll say await
cookies. Make sure to import this from
the next / header. Then we'll say
constant token is equal to cookie
store.get
and our cookie uh token name is GitHub
token dot value. So that's how we'll get
the token. Obviously if token is not
there then we'll simply going to write
here we can change this to next
response dot JSON and then we'll say uh
it's not found
otherwise we'll create one constant to
save all the repos.
Then obviously uh we'll initialize the
first page
and we'll add a condition while true.
Then we'll use constant result is equal
to await fetch and inside this fetch we
need to add this endpoint. So copy this
endpoint and paste it here. So make sure
this api.github.com/ github.com/
user/reos
and then you can add maximum pair per
per page is 100 and then here we say and
page is equal to
dollar page so here
dollar and then page okay now you can
even order this by okay so it has a
proper query you can pass proper
parameter here we'll say order is equal
to updated so Whenever you update any
repo, it will show it at the top.
Then
we'll implement the headers and inside
the header, we have to pass an
authorization here. Let me
add
this need to be an authorization. So
we'll say authorization
and we want to add bearer token. So
we'll say bearer with a capital B and
the token which you already fetging.
And then we'll say accept
application
GitHub uh VND.github.json.
Okay. So make sure to use this one. I'm
getting a suggestion. So it will it is
easy for me. But make sure to add that
as well. And then close the curly
braces.
Then after this we'll add
a constant repose is equal to await
response dot JSON and once we get it
here we'll say if the response.length
length is not there then we can simply
break it. Otherwise we'll say all repos
dot push and then we'll add all of the
repo and we'll say page plus+ because if
there are 200 repo right so it will just
go away and it will go to the it will
scan all of the pages and then it will
add it to your all repo. Once you have
all the repo right you can return the
result. So here we'll say next response
dot JSON and you can map all of this
okay with a proper way
or you can simply return all the result
as it is and that's how our get GitHub
repo endpoint is now ready. After that
we'll go to the repo dialogue again and
inside that now we'll create a method
called constant get repo
list
and the arrow function inside this we'll
say constant result equal to await exos
get and github repos here make sure we
are using exio to uh so we'll import
this exios and we are using await so
I'll mark this as a sync
after that
uh we'll console the result first and
we'll see what data we are getting. Now
this get ripple list we need to call as
soon as you open this dialogue.
So here we'll say get repo list and then
save it. Now if I go back and I will
open the inspect panel as well. So you
can see the console and click add repo.
Now obviously I don't know uh nothing
happened. Let me retry it with the
network tab.
We'll clean everything and click add
repo. Oh, that's weird. Or maybe it's
executing immediately. I'm not sure.
Okay, so over here if you see it's
already calling this repo API endpoint
and currently it's showing pending.
So somehow it failing. I'm not sure
exactly but still showing pending. So
for error you can simply go ahead and
check it the console.
So I don't see any error yet. So let's
check what is the issue. So right now
over here if you see uh it's supposed to
be accept. So there is spelling mistake.
And one more thing I found over here
this need to be and and your query
parameter. Okay. Now let's test this
out. So I will again open the inspect
panel console. Oh sorry go to the
network tab
and refresh it. And right now if you see
we got the repo. Perfect. Now inside
this you will see the all the list of
repo. And right now I have 98 um
different different repo and each repo
has a different fields. So in that one
you will see a comment URL, compare URL
and many other things. Right now we
really don't need all of this
information so that you can even um
just map it with the proper data. So
what we can do once we returning the
data instead of passing all of the uh
data we just we just need uh some of
them. So what we can do we can say map
and we'll say r
and then we'll say id of r dot id for a
name we'll say name dot r name with a
full name then whether is a private or
not along with the html URL uh you can
even add a description updated at then
the owner uh it's not really necessary
but you can just ignore the owner for
now but I think that's all we needed. Uh
if you want you can add a language as a
R dot language
and then the most important thing we'll
pass a default branch as R dot default
branch here we'll say R dot map and then
we'll close it here and save it. Now if
I refresh it, let me close and let's
refresh it again.
Then in that case in the network tab
under for this repo. Okay,
we got the data. But now in that case
we'll see the proper data not all of
them. Perfect. Right now once you click
add repo, we need to make sure that name
of the repo, the HTML URL, id everything
gets saved to our uh database. Here I
will also get the owner who is the owner
of that repo. So we'll say owner
dot login and then save it. Perfect. Now
um also we want to save this information
to our database as well. And currently
we don't have any table which will hold
added repo. So here we'll say export
constant
repository. So here say pg table with a
repo. Then inside that we need to add a
different column. So first is ID. Then
you can add a user ID uh which is belong
to this user. Okay. So this is how you
have to add it. So you have to give the
user ID reference and then we'll say
user do ID which is not null. After that
we'll add a repo id the name full name
the private HTML URL description. So
whatever you are getting inside this you
can simply add that one. Okay
something like this. And I think let's
add remaining one which is owner text do
owner which is not null. I think that's
all we needed and then save. Now each of
the repo ID will generate a unique ID as
well. Okay. So right now if you see
based on our table it will generated or
you can use this repo id because that
also a unique one. Next once you add
this new table you have to push it. So
you can simply run a command npx drizzle
kit push. Okay. And once it pushed if
there is any error obviously it will
show it otherwise it will say changes
applied and you can always uh check it
inside your dri studio locally by
running this command and it will open
the dual studio locally over here if you
see the new table added along with all
the column.
Now
on the back end side only.
So
once we get the list obviously we need
to return this list first and then we'll
add the data. So once we get the repol
list here we'll create a new uh state
called repo list.
Here we'll say use state. Make sure to
import that.
And we need to provide a type for that.
So here we'll say type repo and I will
add all of this type as it is.
So I think let me copy that.
So we have updated add language. Oh this
need to be
language default branch owner
language
default branch and owner. So all of this
information I added now and then
I will provide
a repo which is a list so that you can
simply save the data. So we'll say
result dot data and save all this file
as well. Now let's display all of this
list. So inside this repo list first I
want to add a input box which will
basically
uh help us to search the repo and then
we want to add the list. So let's define
the list first. So
we'll add ul tag and then we'll say
repolist
dot map inside that we'll say repo arrow
function
and then inside that we'll say li tag
and then we'll say
repo dot full name
and if you want to add any other things
you can add that
Let's save it and let's see how it looks
on the dialogue. So if I click add repo,
you will see this list. Obviously it's
not structured very well yet. So over
here we'll add a class name. We'll say
maximum height let's say 60 and overflow
y at so it will add a scroll bar as
well. So if you see we have the proper
scroll bar then
so for this LI tag we'll add a class
name and then we'll add some padding. So
let's say padding to four
then we'll add a border bottom
so that if you see we have this
beautiful scroll for this ul we'll add a
border and we'll make rounded to 2xL.
Okay. So it will be easy to search it.
Let make it Excel only for now. After
that
uh just above this I want to add an
input box. So
in order to add a input you can use a
shadian input component. So I will go to
the shadian and just search for this
input component. Um this is how you can
add it. So copy this command.
So you have to add if it's not there
otherwise you don't need to add here
we'll say yes to proceed and then in
order to use it can simply use an input
I don't know whether it's install or not
so let's see okay now it's ready to use
so here we'll say input component
and inside that we'll say placeholder
and then we'll say search repo by Okay.
So, let's go back to our app. And now we
have this search bar.
Let's add some margin top to this one.
And here you can easily search it. Now,
whenever I type something, right, we
have to make sure it will search. And
whenever I hover on on any of these
element, I want to show some kind of
background color. So
maybe over here we'll say on hover
change background to let's say
foreground color.
Oh, foreground is too dark. Uh
or let's do one thing. Let's change this
to gray 100.
Perfect. Okay. And you can even change
this to a cursor
pointer. Also whenever user select any
repo we need to store in uh in one of
the state. So here we'll say selected
repo
comma set
selected repo is equal to use state
and then we can also add a condition for
the selected one. So I will add inside
the curly braces something like this. in
order to add a conditional um tailwind
CSS class and here we can write a
condition. So here we'll say selected
repo dot u we can say id matches
with the current report dot id in that
case we need to add a background gray
let's say 100 otherwise null and save it
now if I click on add repo and select
any repo right oh so we don't have on
click event because on click of it we
want to save in that state right so
basically here we'll add on click event
and whenever user click on it right so
we'll set the selected repo as
the repo
so that when you click on it you will
see now it's showing it as a selected
one perfect so whichever you select it
will show in a highlighted way after
that uh let's add a search criteria so
we have this input and here we'll say
onchange onchange we have to store uh
the user entered input. So obviously
inside the onchange it will emit the
event and in order to store in a state
so here we'll say constant search term
and then we'll set the use state u the
default is string here we'll say set
search term with the event dot target
dot value
and as soon as it start changing then we
have to immediately uh filter that out.
So over here we'll say constant
filtered
repo list
is equal to use memo. So we going to use
a memo to remember the value and then
inside that we'll say constant query is
equal to uh search term dot trim
dot lower case and then if there is a no
query then it will return the complete
repo list otherwise
we'll say repolist
dot filter and then inside that we'll
say repo I will say just R
uh easy to understand so R dot full name
dot to lower case
dot includes query I think that's all we
need okay but if you want to add on
multiple condition you can add that too
and over here as we are using memo
obviously we need to execute whenever
this search term and repo list is
changed okay So whenever the search term
change and repo list change you have to
use uh or you have to execute this
filter list. Now obviously uh instead of
iterating the repo list now we'll
iterate this filtered repo list. So I
will replace with the filter repo list.
And now if I click add repo obviously
we'll see the uh repo but here if I t
start typing right you will see u I'm
able to search it quickly. Perfect.
Right. And once you select that on the
click of add button we want to save it
to our database.
So let's add that. So over here we'll
say on click
save repo to db
and this method we need to create
because we don't have this method. So I
will say constant save to database
and inside that
uh either you can call an API endpoint.
You can directly save but it's always
good to call an API endpoint for that.
So I will create a new endpoint inside
the API and inside that we'll say user
repo. Inside the user repo, we'll create
a route.
TS file. And then
here we say export
a sync function. And this need to be a
post request. So we'll say post
request of type next request.
and the arrow function inside this uh
whichever the repo we uh we want to pass
all of this information we need to save
so we'll say constant and we
destructurize this so we'll say repo
id then I basically I need all of these
query params so basically all of this I
want so we'll say ID name full name so
we'll say ID name then full name.
Then what else we have? Private HTML
URL.
Private comma HTML URL.
Then description language.
Description,
language, comma, updated add.
Let me see. Updated add default branch
and owner.
Updated add default branch and owner.
And then that we will get it from the
request dot JSON. Okay, so all of this
value we need it. Um I'm not sure about
this private. Okay, private we also need
that. But private is a reserved word.
Oh, that's interesting because we cannot
use the private like this. So what we
can do? we'll say underscore
for this private and while you are
returning the data from the GitHub repo
right here as well I will return it as a
underscore okay so when you are getting
the data you will send it as a private
underscore perfect now once you have all
of this information
so it's totally up to you whether you
want to dstructureize or not okay and
now we'll say constant
result is equal to await db dot insert
and then we want to insert into a repo
uh repo table. So we'll say repository
from the DB schema. I will just verify
once that's correct table name. So it's
a repository dot values and inside this
value you have to add each value one by
one. So first we have the repo id as it
is. Then uh we don't have the user ID
here. This ID
we'll mention it as a user ID. So we'll
add user ID. Then the name full name.
Then for private we'll say private or
not. So it belong to one or zero. Then
HTML description language and owner. So
all of these value you have to add it.
Uh for this I will add ts ignore for now
and then save it. So this will actually
save our information and you can return
the inserted record. So over here we'll
say return next response dot JSON and
result of zero. So this need to be a
return and then save it. Now make sure
when you call this API endpoint you will
pass the user ID. Okay, that user ID
nothing but not a cler ID. This need to
be a database uh record ID. Now once
your API endpoint is ready to insert the
record, we'll go back to our
uh repo dialogue where we have the saved
report to database. So here we'll say if
there is no selected repo uh repo then
we'll return nothing otherwise we'll say
con result is equal to await aios.post
post and we'll call API/ user repo and
inside that we have to add all of this
information as it is. Okay. Then we have
to add user ID. For the user ID we need
to get a user information on this
dialogue and from the context you'll you
can get it. So we'll say user detail use
context make sure to import that and
then we'll say user detail context from
the user detail. So we have user detail
dot id.
After that I think we need to pass owner
as a selected repo owner. Let's see what
else u we need to pass. Updated add then
language.
So we'll say updated add
then language as selected repo. language
and default branch. As we are using aait
I will mark this as a async. Now make
sure whatever the field you are passing
and obviously here we are fetching that
and then you are inserting it as simple
as that. Now let's test this out. Uh
before testing I will just console the
result. So we'll say result dot data and
when you uh insert it right we have to
make sure you will show some kind of
notification message as well as uh you
can you have to close this dialogue.
Okay. Now in order to close a dialogue
there is a couple of way that you have
to do it. So first we'll define a
constant and here we'll say is open
comma set is open and by default to
false. Now once you insert the record
we'll set the is open to false and to
this dialogue you have to pass
a open field and then we'll say is open.
Okay. And whenever the open change,
there is another field called on
open change. And that time we have to
set open to true. Okay. So that's how
you have to do it. So let's save it and
uh once it is inserted right we have to
make sure that our homepage will also
get refreshed.
So over here we'll say set refresh page
and then we'll pass it as a true.
Basically once it is in uh insert right
we have to pass this
set is refreshed
with a type boolean. Okay so that's what
I provide the type and then save it. So
inside the workspace now I can accept
this set refresh
here will say refresh of type boolean
and then I will for now I will just
console it as a refresh. Perfect. Now
test this out. So I will go back inside
the inspect panel. You can see the error
if you find anything but click add repo.
You can search any repo you want. And
once you select it, you can click add.
Right now if you see we have some
internal server error 500 means. So it
means we have error inside our API
endpoint. So you can always check the
API endpoint error inside the terminal
and it's saying the invalid time value.
So basically uh inside our route, you
don't need to pass this. You can just
simply say updated at and save it and
let's take this out again. So once you
click add, oh we still have another
error. So let's see why.
So right now if you see we have an
error. It's saying null value in a
column updated at. So updated add column
value might not have any value. So I
will do one thing. I will remove this
complete column because anyway we are
not using that column anywhere. Now when
you are updating your columns right you
have to make sure you will update your
uh schema and then you update your
database by p running this command npm
drik push. So basically it will remove
that particular column. Okay. And now if
I try to add it you will see the record
is get added and uh on our workspace
body it return true. It means it return
uh to the main page and it's saying okay
you have to refresh this page so that
that repo list will display on this
workspace uh page. Okay, but the
interesting thing uh we successfully
insert the record and now obviously you
can verify by going to the repo and over
here oh I don't know why it's okay we
have to go to the instruct data format
oh let me refresh this my bad because it
has a old updated uh column and if you
see we have all of this information like
user ID repo ID all the information we
want we saved it. Obviously, if the repo
don't have description, that's
completely fine.
So that's how guys you have to fetch the
repo from the user GitHub account and
then uh we want to give an option to the
user to add it inside your uh project
and obviously we have to save it to your
database. Now, now it's time to create a
new branch and we'll push all our all
our changes which we made in this
chapter. So I will create a new branch
and here we'll say uh fetch
users GitHub
reple list.
Then hit enter. Make sure it's uh
checked out and then you can give the
commit message. Then you can stage all
of these changes and simply say commit.
And don't forget to publish your branch
so that in your account you can create a
new pull request. So if I refresh this
we'll see this fetch user GitHub repo
list. Click on it and simply click
create pull request. Once you click the
create pull request uh plan arc will
start commenting on your PR without
doing any further delay. And not only
that in few minutes or a few seconds um
you will see it also left a comment with
a proper summary that what are the
changes you made in this one and then
you have some inline comment okay for
your complete project. Now in inside
this it will show what you implemented
and properly. So it's implemented a
GitHub repository fetch API to reter
then added that selected repo into the
database a repo dialogue to allow user
to search and select repo. everything is
mentioned properly and then once you're
happy with all the changes you can merge
that into your uh main branch and you
can always go over here inside the plan
arc to verify your
running last running uh PR view report
and inside the report you will see the
complete report as well.
Now it's time to display all the
selected repo on your workspace page.
And obviously first we only show the top
section where you will see the repo name
uh the branch and basic information. And
then you have option to expand this. Uh
this is just a mockup but uh once you
expand it then you will see some status
option and then your test cases as well.
So let's go back to our application
and inside that we we need to display
it. So first thing we need to create the
API endpoint to fetch the repo. So we
already have API endpoint for the user
repo. Inside that we'll add a get
request.
So I will say export
constant
function get
and then we'll just add it something
like this. Oh this need to be an export
a sync function. Now here we will send
request next request. Right now we are
fetching all the user uh related uh
added repo right from the database. So
we don't really need a search parameter
but we'll just add it later on if you
need to fetch only repo info or record
which belong to that particular repo id.
But right now we don't really don't need
it. Here we need to get a user ID. So we
can get that user ID. So we'll say user
ID is equal to search param dot get and
then we'll say user ID. So obviously
this search param we we are using to get
the user ID. that user ID we are passing
from the get request. Then here we'll
say constant result is equal to await
database dot select from then the table
is repository
dot here we'll say dot where and inside
the where condition we'll add equal to
and we have to compare it repository
user ID and then our user ID okay so if
user ID is not there uh we'll pass it as
zero here uh maybe we can add ts ignore
for this equal to and once we get the
result
then we can return it using next
response dot result as simple as it is
then we'll go back to our workspace page
tsx where we have workspace body and
inside that currently we are showing
empty workspace right but now inside the
workspace body we can fetch all of those
um get post list right so here we'll say
get repo list I will say get user repo
list
you get user added repo list
and then inside that we can simply call
this API endpoint so We will say exos
dot get
user id and user detail we already have
which we are getting from the context we
are passing to as a query parameter here
we'll mark this as a a sync and this is
a get request right now we'll simply
return the result first we'll see what
data we are getting now for this get
user added repolish right instead of
calling this inside the use effect we'll
call inside the github user token
because once we get the token then only
it's better to fetch it. It's totally up
to you or let's fetch it inside the use
effect. Um because this is the repolish
we are directly fetching from the
database and not from the GitHub. So
let's save it and obviously I will check
inspect panel to verify whether we are
getting the data inside the console or
not.
So right now if I refresh it
you will see the data or this is the
report dialog. Uh
let me scroll down.
Oh is this the one? I don't think so.
Not not this one. Uh it look like we are
not getting
the data. We have an error 500. See so
let's see why we are getting this error.
So if I go to this bottom, you might see
an error.
Let me remove some console. So it's
difficult to find it out. So from the
repo route, I already have this console
which I will remove it and then we'll
refresh it so that we can see the proper
error. So right now if you see it's
saying an error at at a DB select and
it's saying invalid input syntax for the
undefined. So it look like that user ID
is not get. So inside the workspace we
have the user ID which you are passing.
This is correct.
Then we'll go to the user repo.
Here we are fetching the user ID and
this is the user ID.
Let me remove that and let's save it.
So basically u inside our database make
sure you have this user id right. So we
have that.
Okay. The the reason that we are getting
this undefined because u this context
taking some time to fetch data and we
are calling that immediately right. So
maybe we'll add it inside the another
use effect and we'll only execute
when we have the user detail
information. Okay. So here we'll say
user detail is there
then only call the
um get user added rep list right. So now
if I
return it or if I fetch it again and
then if I go to the console you will see
the result. Okay. Now we have the repo
which we added. Perfect.
After that uh we need to save that added
rep list in one state. So here we will
say constant
uh
user rep list. So here we will say user
rep list, set user repo list and use
state. Here we need to define that type.
So we if you remember we already have
that type defined inside the report
dialogue at the top. Here you can export
this. So you don't need to define it
again. Once you export you can directly
use it. So here we'll say repo and then
it's a array of string. So that's what
we define. Now once you have the user
repo list right um here u there are some
parameter will not match. Maybe we need
to create a separate type inside our
workspace body. We cannot use this one
because um the column which we added is
different. Okay the result we are
getting is little bit different. So
let's add. So over here we'll say user
repo
as a new type and we'll define type at
the top.
So we'll say ID number, repo ID, full
name and all of this information. Um we
also add user ID, the language
and default branch. Perfect. So that now
we have the complete list. Now whenever
the list is there we don't need to show
this empty workspace page. So here we'll
say uh if
the user reple list is not there then
only show the empty workspace uh
otherwise we want to show otherwise for
now I will say null. Okay. And now if I
go back you will see that it's not
showing because we have the um user
added list. Now here we going to create
a new component in order to display the
GitHub repo. So here we will say user
repo list.tsx
add a default template and then we want
to add that user repo list
over here. Make sure to import that.
Oh, I don't know what happened here. Let
me
user repol list.
I think that's correct one. User repol
list. We have to import it from the user
rep list. Perfect. We forgot to import.
Now we are good. Now here you will see
the user repo list. Now let's go to the
user repo list. And here we need to
fetch all the rep list. So here we say
user repo list or we'll just add repo
list.
Now uh I will provide a type as a props
and we'll define a type
props
and from the workspace body I will
export this type so that we can use it.
So over here we'll say repo list of type
user repo and it's a list. Perfect. And
obviously don't forget to pass the uh
user repo list. So here we'll say repo
list as user repo list. So whatever the
list we are saving right inside this
state we have to pass it. But make sure
don't forget to set the value once we
get the user repol list from uh and this
user repo list we need to pass to our
new component. Now here we need to
display it. So in order to display and
add the functionality where you can
expand this right on the click we are
going to use a shhatian component called
accordion. So if I expand this, you will
see the hidden text error content as
well. So that's how we want. So I will
copy this npm package in order to
install that. And then we're going to
simply install it. Now for the example
purpose,
you can copy this example. Make sure to
copy this import statement first and
then copy this um accordion. So
I will add first repo
list dot map.
Let me undo this repo list dot map.
I will say repo,
index and the arrow function and paste
this accordion example. Now what it will
do if you go back to our application
somehow it's not showing this accordion
now it displays see it okay so here we
have option to expand that as well now
let's update this uh so
for the trigger I'm going to show a
proper
uh name of the repo so we'll say repo
dot full name and then you will see the
repository full name over here
and for this accordion we'll say key as
a index oh the field name is a full name
okay so here I need to update this to
full name
uh HTML URL is also not underscore
okay and I don't know why we are getting
okay I think maybe we map the result so
I We'll update that everywhere the
default branch as well.
Maybe now we'll get the full name. So it
will display the full name. See
something like this. Now I'm going to
add some styling to this.
So let's wrap it inside the div
and inside the h2. We'll add that. Then
here I'm going to add an image with a
source.
And here we'll add a GitHub.png
image only.
Alt we'll say GitHub and width I will
say 20 height to 20.
Now let's bring that everything in one
line. So over here we'll say class name
make it flex item
uh to be in the center and gap to two
for now.
Okay.
Then below that we are going to add
uh some more information. So what I will
do I will just
add H2 tag or maybe sorry um the div and
inside the div we'll add H2 and then
here we'll add a P tag.
Now inside the P p tag we'll add a
branch name. So here we'll say repo dot
uh default branch then we'll add a dot.
So I already you can copy the paste this
dot from anywhere. Then I want to add a
repo language and updated at when it
updated. But we do really don't need uh
when it's updated. So I will remove
that.
And I think that's all we need for now.
And if I save it, you will see this main
and typescript. Perfect. So now for this
do we'll add a class name. We'll make it
flex. we'll make f column item to be in
the center or we can say item to be in
the start and gap to let's say one. Now
for this H2 we'll make text excess.
Okay. So we have and I can we can change
the color let's say 500. So it will show
little light. Uh this one we can make it
little bit bigger.
Perfect. And you can add more gap
between this and this one.
Perfect. Obviously, right now we only
have one repo, but you can add more repo
into this. For example, if I go over
here and let's add this resume builder
for example and click add. Now once you
add it, if you see it's not refreshing
immediately, right? So once you manually
refresh it, then only you will see that
information. So that's because uh if you
remember inside our workspace body right
when we have the repo dialogue we just
console this log right but instead of
that now we're going to call this get
user added repo list okay so it will
refresh it and then
u we we will call this particular
uh method so it will give you the
updated one also u you can add a toast
message to show a proper loading
indicator. It's totally up to you how
you want to handle it. But for now, I
think this look much better. Now, um
we'll add some border to this each of
the accordion item. So, for this one,
we'll add a class name and we'll add a
border. We'll add a padding x to five
and we'll make rounded to let's say
excel and save it. Okay. Now, we don't
need this outer border. So we can remove
this outer border if you don't want so
from the workspace. Um we want to remove
this card content. Obviously it's added
to complete one. So let's do one thing.
Let's redesign this particular one. So
when there is a empty workspace then
only you can show the card. And now I
will move out this over here.
And now if you see we don't have card
but obviously don't forget to um add
some margin from the top
something like this and
I will also write here we'll say
uh repo
jitter
we say margin y to three
and text media or sorry font medium
and save it. Perfect. So here you will
see all your repo and you if you expand
then you will see your uh all the
content. Okay. Like how many test case
and everything. So for now I hope you
understand how we added this particular
section. Now on the expand we want to
add the remaining one which is the
status and the list of test cases.
Now for the status card. So in order to
show this, I already wrote a code. Okay.
So I created this status card uh as a
new component and inside this you will
see I'm just passing the icon and the
title along with the value. Okay. So I
will copy the status card as it is and
you can even put it inside the user rep
just below this.
remove this string formatting and save
it. After that, uh I also have the
accordion content which will render the
status card. So inside this content,
we'll replace it with the content. You
can get all of this code from the uh
eraser doc. I will put the link in the
description. So make sure to um copy and
paste it here. And also I for the
placeholder purpose you can add a total
test pass test this value as it is and
then make sure to add all of this icon
from the lucid react. So import this
statement just do the control space
you'll get the suggestion and then make
sure to import that once you save it.
Now let import this button component
along with the icon and save it. And if
I go back to our application, you will
see on expand we have this total test
pass obviously all the status card and
then option to generate the test case.
On the click of this generate test case
then we have to call
an AI model. We have to scan all our
repo and then AI model will generate the
test case for us. Okay. So that logic we
are going to implement uh in the next
chapter. But for now the UI part make
sure it's ready so that uh we can
implement the generate test case
feature. Now once the UI is completed
and obviously some of the code you can
just copy paste from the eraser doc.
Then now we'll push this to our um
branch. So we'll create a new branch for
this uh new changes. So we'll click on
create branch and then we'll say display
user
added repo.
Then I will stage all of this change.
Give the commit message and then simply
say commit. Once you commit it um
publish your branch and then inside the
GitHub
you'll get an option uh to create the
pull request. Simply create the pull
request automatically plan.dev will
trigger the
PR review. Okay, the with the help of AI
and if you see it's immediately generate
the summary based on the what are the
changes you made and along with the
inline comment which suggested that you
can make the change. Obviously uh there
are three different way one is the
medium the high and the uh light where
how important is to make the changes
okay that also mention and anytime from
the plan.dev dev dashboard you can
review your changes along with the
whatever the
in a given p or whatever the uh changes
you made you can find it inside the
summary any time
now as we already completed the selected
repo and we are also showing the user
added repo on the screen so I will mark
this as a completed one now we need to
scan the user selected repo in order to
generate the test case and we already
have button uh in order to trigger the
test generation. But the question is uh
understanding the workflow how to scan
the repo. Obviously repo contain a
millions of line of code right and
obviously if you pass all of that to the
AI model then that would be problematic
and it will you will get a lot of charge
um for your AI model. So I already broke
down this generate test case into a
smaller uh steps so that you will
understand. Now in order to generate the
case uh test cases we have to read the
repo content first and in from the repo
content we just need to get a repo tree.
Okay. So which will give you that what
is inside the app folder which file it
is then inside the component what are
the different files. Once we have the
repo content we'll read the file
content. Now this is only on the uh our
server side. We are not telling AI to
read it. Okay, we are going to read it.
So obviously um reading from to our
server side. It's it's you'll not get
any charge for that one. Right? We are
just uh using a GitHub API will read the
file content.
Now once we have the file content which
we needed and along with the our own AI
prompt, we are going to pass that to the
AI model. Now remember the file content
is not not does not include everything
okay only the necessary information. So
that's the reason we also fetching the
repository and then once we have pass
both the things to the AI model then it
will generate the test case. Now in the
test case you'll get an title
description and the most important thing
we need to do is to generate the browser
script. Now this is the next part which
we are going to implement because
browser script will run our test case in
actual uh cloud platform. Okay. Uh
obviously it's a kind of browser but on
the cloud and then it will return
whether that test case is fail or pass.
But this is the different um flow that
we'll see in the next chapter. But first
we need to generate the test case so
that we can display those test case and
then we can execute the each step uh
test case one by one. Okay. Now I
already wrote a code because there is a
big line of code uh that we need to
implement but I'm going to walk through
each of them. Before that we need to
save all the generated test case in one
table. So this is the test case table uh
schema file I I have. So simply copy
that from the eraser doc. Then go back
to your your uh visual studio and inside
the schema file you can simply add that
remove the string value.
And once we have that
here I will import the vari from the pg
core and JSON B as well and save it.
Once you save you have to update your
drizzle uh sorry your database. So you
have to run this push command and then
you will see the changes applied as a
text and after that you can verify by
running the result kit studio.
So we'll run the studio now and I will
go back to the result studio. Let's
refresh this and then you will see a
brand new table
will render
and here we go. So we have the test case
as a table and in that table you will
see all the uh columns. Okay. Now next
thing
uh we need to create a new API endpoint
and inside that we have to add all of
this code. I will walk through it line
by line but first let's copy paste this
code. It's a huge code and that's the
reason in order to avoid uh spending a
time on writing each line one by one I
already wrote it for you so that you can
copy paste it. So uh this particular
code you can simply add inside a new API
endpoint. So under the API we'll create
a new
endpoint called generate
test cases and then inside this we'll
create a route dot ts file. Then you can
simply paste all of this code.
So make sure to remove this string and
then save it. So make sure to import the
correct DB reference. So at the bottom
where we are inserting.
Perfect. Now obviously we need to
install the generative AI from the
Google's Gemini because we are using a
Gemini AI model. It's a free uh and for
all of my user um obviously um we are
not paying anything to this course. So
that's the reason we kept this as a free
source uh free AI model. Okay. Now very
first thing we initialize this Google
gen so that we can use it. After that
these are some allowed extension like
JS.tsx only these are the allowed
extension and only these file uh our
system will read it. Okay this part
important files is uh these are the
folders or files which is very important
to read uh the node module.net D we want
to ignore this file. Okay. So that's the
reason this ignore path u extension is
written. So this all three constant has
some extension or file path which is
which is required or which need to be
ignored. Then uh this useful file we'll
check what are the useful file and which
are not. Okay. So this particular
function we'll call later on in inside
our
get API call. Then next thing we have
get reporter. Now this particular
function will actually help us to get
the repository tree structure and we are
using a GitHub API for that. Now we
already saving the owner. Okay, but
nothing but the your current login
GitHub account. Then the repository
name. Now this repository name we
already have inside our database right
under the repo. So we have this name. So
that name we are we need to pass.
After that we have to get the tree
structure. So we'll say /get /tree and
the branch because we also saving the
default branch right. So default branch
is main and that's why we are saving
that one. And once we save pass the
GitHub token and then accept. Now make
sure the GitHub token obviously we need
to pass which is correct. And once we
get the repo tree uh sorry the
repository tree you can just map it
properly and pass it. Now over here if
you see it checking what are the useful
path and those which don't require it
will not return inside the data dot
tree. After this we have the read GitHub
file. Now this will actually read each
file one by one. And if you see we have
the reference and for that one to get
the file content and everything and here
we are decoding the content and then we
are slicing it as well. Okay. Next, this
is the post API call where our actual uh
async post function will start. Inside
this, we'll get the body parameters like
user ID, repo ID, owner, which is the
repo's name or branch, right? The by
default is main and then GitHub token.
Now, instead of getting the GitHub token
over here, what we'll do? We will get
the token. So, here we will say conant.
Here we will say cookie
store
or you can copy it from
our existing one. So I will copy this
cookie store to get the token
and then we'll call it as a GitHub
token. Okay. And make sure to import
this cookie from next header because you
can get it directly inside the server.
So you don't need to pass from the front
end. Then once we have the GitHub token
and everything and if it's something is
missing obviously it will throw an error
otherwise we have to get the reporter we
already have the function for that
return at the top then we'll read the
file content and then we from that we'll
get the all the valid files and from the
valid files we are going to uh get a
repo context which contain the file path
and the file content. Then we have the
prompt okay which is defined. So we are
saying that okay you are an expert you
QA automation engineer and analyze the
GitHub repo and generate some small test
case. Now obviously we need to generate
a small test cases and not a big one.
Okay otherwise it will be difficult to
test. So if you uh for your repo if you
create a small test case it will be easy
to execute that one as well and then we
passing all the required uh metadata.
Then right now for the testing purpose
or for development purpose we are just
saying okay let's generate five to 10 uh
test cases only and each test case must
have this all of the information like
title description type whether that's a
UI based authentication based or API all
of these then their priority the target
route where um which on which file the
test case should run the target files
and route is returned and then expected
result. Okay, what is the expected
result and there are some rules also
attached. All of this code is al already
available inside the eraser doc. So you
can just copy paste it. Then we are
using an AI model. Now you have to make
sure the model name is correct. Okay. So
right now um I will just show you how to
get the model name. So go to the
aistudio.google.com
if you are using a Google Gemini AI
model but you can use any other
whichever is your favorite. Then go to
the Gemini and select the model which
you think you want to use. So for
example, if you want to use this
flashlight model, I will just paste it
here and then save it. So that it will
use this model and inside the model uh
if you see we pass the configuration and
the response schema. Now response schema
will give you the exact u proper
structural output. Okay. So that's the
reason this response schema is mentioned
and inside the content we already have
the prompt added. Okay.
Now this repo context is already added
inside the prompt. So you don't need to
pass it again. Then we'll get the
result. Okay. And once we get the test
cases, you have to insert those test
cases into the test case table which is
already defined right inside our
database. And that's all that's how easy
it is. Now you have to make sure you
will install this Google gen AI. So what
I will do I will just install it.
So inside the terminal just type npm I
Google gen i and let's oh I think this
is not the correct one. Let's search on
Google gen i n n n n n n n n n n n n n n
n n n n n n npm package
and we need this one. So we'll copy it
and we'll paste it here. So this need to
be an at Google gen. So I'm I did not
copy the correct way. Now it is
installed and now you'll see the error
is gone. Perfect. Now we need to call
this method on the click of our generate
test case button. So I will go back to
our custom component where we have the
uh user repo list and here we have the
generate test case. Now first I will
create a method.
So over here we'll say constant
handle
generate test cases
and inside that obviously it will return
the repo. Here we are going to write a
logic to implement uh the test cases.
Now this handle generate test case
we are going to call on click of this
button.
And here don't forget to pass the repo
right because each
repo has their own button. See right and
then it will send all of this
information.
Now once we have this repo information
obviously we also mention the type here.
Then we are going to call our API
endpoint which is the generate test
case. So we'll say constant result is
equal to await
axios dot post/ API/generate test case.
Now as we are using await I will mark
this as a sync. Then we need to get a
user detail in order to get the user ID
because inside the route.ts um you have
to make sure you pass all of these
information right. Oh not this one. Um
let me go down to a post and here the
user ID repo ID owner and all. So in
order to get the user ID you need to get
it from a context. So we'll say constant
user detail is equal to you context and
then we'll say user detail context.
After that we'll get the user detail
sorry user detail dot
id. Then we have to pass repo ID. So
we'll say repo id
as repo dot
repo id. Then we need to pass owner the
repo as a repo name and then the branch.
Okay. So if you already have the branch
then make sure to pass the branch name.
If user has some different branch then
it will pass the different branch as
well. And right now if you see we have
the five different parameter which we
are passing. And here make sure um
you're sending the correct parameter
along with their value. Then here I will
write a console.lo with a result dot
data and then save it. also um we need
to show some kind of loading state when
it's generating a data. So at the top
here I will define constant we'll say
loading set loading
is equal to use state and initially it
will be false. Then as soon as you start
generating we'll set the loading as
true.
And once it is finished we'll set the
loading as false. Okay. Now while it is
generating the test case you can show a
loading state. So here we'll say if it
is loading so a loader icon
otherwise you can show a sparkle icon.
But for the loader icon we'll add a
class name. And here we'll say animate
spin.
Okay. So it will show a proper animation
for that. And then whenever the loader
is true, you can disable this button so
that user will not click that again.
Okay. And I think that's all we needed
for now. Obviously you can make a update
like when it's loading you can change
this text that's generating or something
like that. So for example here we'll say
if loading is true we can add generating
case
otherwise we can show
this text.
Perfect. Okay. Now after this uh
obviously we need to add our AI models
API key. So we already defined the AI
model inside our route.ts ts file but we
need to add this API key. So inside your
env file we'll add this API key.
So let's go to your AI studio the
geminis AI studio and then click on this
get API key. From here you have option
to create an API key if you don't have
already give the API key name and then
click create key. Once you create the
key it will generate a key. Copy that
key and paste it inside your env file.
Now let's test this out. Currently we
are just consoling the data but you can
even verify that inside the network tab.
Now if I expand this and click on
generate test case you will see it start
generating and on the right hand side
you will see a network tab and boom it's
ready. So we don't have any error.
That's a good thing. And if I go to the
preview it's saying that test case
generated and it generated six test
cases. If I expand the test case, you
will see the inserted record information
like branch with on which branch the
expected result. What are the title? So
it's saying verify hero section
rendering. Then description along with
the uh expected result and the target
file in which file we have to check and
everything. Okay. So we have the test
case along with the all the information
which we need. Now make sure inside the
database as well it's storing. So we
have the user ID, repo ID, the repo name
which is connected and all other
information. Pretty cool, right?
Once you have these all of the
information, you have to display those
test cases on the screen. So as per our
eraser doc, if you see this mockup, we
need to show those test cases. So we
need to show in the list form and we
have to give this checkbox because we
are giving an option to the user to
execute test case which he want to
execute otherwise uh there is a not
required okay to execute it. So let's go
back and once you save it we need to
fetch those all the generated test
cases. So either you can write a get API
endpoint inside the same API u route.ts
PS or you can create a new API endpoint
and inside that we'll say
test cases
then we'll say route tsx file
then add a default template
or not here uh here we'll need to add
export
a sync function
then get here we'll say request and then
Next request. Now here you have two
option. Either you can fetch all the
test case for all the repo or you can
fetch only test case when you expand it.
Okay, it's totally up to you. Uh it good
you can even fetch all the test case at
once. But in this case we'll fetch one
by one. Okay. So
let's go back and inside this we'll say
constant
search params is equal to new request
dot URL dot search param and then from
here we'll say constant
repo id is equal to search param sorry
here we'll say search params dot get and
repo id. Now from the repo id we are
going to fetch the record but if the
repo id is missing then we'll say return
u the response is obviously it will
return the we need to return the error
message. So here instead of return we'll
say next response do json and then with
some error otherwise we need to fetch
the data. So we'll say constant
result is equal to await
db dot select from here we'll say test
case table dot where and then inside
that we'll add an equal to test case
repo id dotreo id. So it will get the
result which is saved inside our
database and then we need to show those.
So we'll say return next response
dot JSON and then we'll say result and
then save it. So it will return the all
the test case belong to that particular
repo. Now inside the repo list.
Now whenever I open any of the test case
we have to make sure to call that API
endpoint to fetch it if the test case is
available. If not then obviously we are
going to show this generate test case
message all the time. So in order to
implement it for this accordion we need
to know which test case or sorry which
yeah which test case uh sorry the repo
is open right. So this accordion has the
event called all value changed and we
have to pass a proper value. So in here
we'll say um
repo dot repo id and obviously we need
to pass a string and not a number. So I
will convert that into a string and then
it has a method called on value changed.
Okay. So inside this you can check which
is the value. Okay. Currently I'm just
consoling it so that you will see the
inside the inspect panel. So let's clean
this out. And if I open this, oh somehow
it's not printing out.
Oh, this need to be on value change and
not volume change. So make sure it's on
value change. And if I expand it, you
will see that repo ID. If I close it,
then you will not get that ID. And same
thing if you switch it, you will get the
ID. Perfect. Right? So that's how you
have to uh open and expand
the accordion.
But here if I open one of them right so
for example if I click open and uh open
another one it show both open right and
we don't want that one so there is one
fix we need to do inside the accordion
item sorry inside accordion right we
added a separate accordion for each of
the item so instead of that we'll move
this accordion above this and inside
that we'll just add the accordion item
though this is the correct way to do it
And at the bottom I will put this
accordion out of this map list and then
save it. So what it will do it will once
you open any of the repo and you can try
to open another one the first one will
automatically close so that it will only
fetch the test cases for the open one.
Okay. And that's why we that's what we
wanted. Now next thing
uh over here we'll do the we did the
console lock. Now we'll remove it and we
going to call our method. So I don't
think so we wrote the method. So let's
add the method called constant
get test cases
and inside this we'll add or here we
need to accept the repo
and then we'll say user uh here we just
need a repo ID nothing else. So we'll
say repo id and currently we are passing
it as a string or you can convert that
into a number. So this need to be a
number.
And over here I will call get test
cases. But now I will change this to
number.
Perfect. And save it. Now over here we
say constant result is equal to await
axios dotget and obviously we need to
get all the test cases and just we are
passing the repo id inside the query
parameter as we are using aait I will
mark this as a async
and then for the testing purpose first I
will check the inside the console log.
So let's go ahead and check it out. So
we'll go to the console
and
let's clean this out. If I open this,
you will see we got the test cases. Six
test cases. Obviously for the second
one, we don't have any. So it's
returning empty because we did not
generate. But for first one, you will
see the test cases. Perfect. Now
obviously we uh currently we only have a
small number of test cases. But if you
have extra or lot of test cases, it will
take a seconds or a couple of seconds to
load the test case. So we need to add
proper loading state for this one. So
over here
maybe we can use the existing loading as
well. Okay, it's totally up to you how
you want to handle. Let's try to use
existing one and we instead of creating
a new one. So here we'll say constant
set loading to true and here set loading
to false.
Then whenever the loading is true,
right? uh we need to show some kind of
loading indicator and we don't want to
show this complete block as well. So
over here we'll say
if it's loading right.
Okay. So instead of uh using the same
state uh let's use a different one.
Okay. So we'll define constant
test case loading comma set
test
case loading and is equal to use state
to false. And here I will replace this
two test case loading.
Perfect. Now whenever the test case is
loading,
so we'll say if
test case is loading then we'll say h2
tag
with a loader icon. So we'll say loader
icon
and here I will say please wait.
Here I will animate this using animate
spin
otherwise. So I will add colon otherwise
we will show this generate button.
Okay. And save it. Right now if you if I
open this um obviously it's showing the
test case uh generated once we have the
result. But
along with this test case loading, I
have to add one more uh field. But for
now, if you open this, see. Okay, right
now it's loading very fast. But uh it
show this particular text. Okay. Now,
next thing we need to save all the test
case which is loaded in another
state. Right. So here is a constant test
cases equal to use test and test cases
and then
every time we have to set the test cases
to empty and then we have to add the new
one in that one. Okay. And save it. Now
over here we need to make some
modification.
So I'm going to create a component to
display all the test case. So we'll
create test case
list dot tsx file and then we'll add a
default template over here
and then whenever maybe
here we can add if test case test case
loading is not there
and and test case length is greater than
zero.
Then we're going to simply show the user
or oh sorry the test case list. So here
we say test case list. Okay. And
obviously make sure uh if the test case
is there you don't need to show this
block.
So maybe we can add a condition if test
cases
do.length length greater than zero or
here we say is equal to equal to0
then only show this generate test case
block otherwise you don't need to show
and if I open it you will see the test
case list is now that component is now
rendering because we have the data and
that generate test case button is also
not showing now the thing is as per the
mockup you just need to show all the
test cases
now you want to display the all the test
cases. Okay. So few things we are going
to show like checkbox type the uh test
case and description before that uh we
already defined the test case use state
and we are also storing that uh inside
this test case right once we get the
test cases from the database but we need
to define type for it. So here we'll say
type
test case is equal to and in that we are
going to add
all of these field value. Okay. So right
now if you see we have ID then title. So
those things which is important we are
going to add. So here we have title uh
description then
so here
after description uh and title we add
type so here we'll say
type of type string then you can add
repo id
after that you will you will you can add
this target files along with the repo
name u
So over here we'll say
target
files is of string uh list.
Then um if you want you can add the
priority. The expected result is also
important. So we'll say expected result
of type string. Now this repo owner or
name we already have. Okay. But if you
want you can even use this and keep it
inside your test case. So it will be
easy. So we'll say repo uh name of type
string. Then we have the repo id repo
owner. So repo owner of type string.
Repo
I think repo ID is already there.
So we don't need to add that. And we
already add the expected um result as
well. Created ad we really don't need
it. And target route as well. That is
also important. So target route of type
string. Now once you have the test case
uh type defined you can simply add it
here. Okay. And make sure to export it
so that you can use it at other places.
Now for example if I go to this test
case uh list when we are displaying we
want to pass uh the test cases. Okay. So
here we'll say test case
list
and then we'll pass the test cases or
test case list only something like this.
Now inside the test case list let's
accept that and then we'll write a prop.
So let's define a type as a prop and
then we'll say test case list as test
case
which we are importing
uh from the this particular component.
Right now if you see we have an error
saying it's saying is not assignable of
type test case. Let me see that's the
correct name.
And then we have the type prof with a
test case.
Oh, this need to be a test cases. Okay,
because that's the state name we define
and then we have the test case list
here. You can change this to test cases
otherwise the component name and the
name might get confused. So here as well
I'm going to update it. Okay. And then
save it. Now once you save here we need
to show uh those test cases. So inside
the s2 tag we'll say generated
test cases
and here let's save this one. Let's see
how it looks on the screen. Right now
we'll close this. And here we have the
test case list.
Let me save. Let me refresh this page.
And right now if you see once it's
loading right it's taking some time. So
we need to show some kind of loading
indicator. And right now it's showing
the text called generate test cases.
Here I will make this font uh medium.
After that let's add a div. And inside
the do let's iterate this test cases. So
we'll test cases dot map. Here we'll say
test case arrow function here. Sorry.
And here we'll add index as well. Then
we'll add a div.
Inside the div, first I want to add a
checkbox. Now in order to add the
checkbox component from the shadian,
just go to the shadian document, go to
the checkbox and then copy this import
statement. After that you can simply
import that.
Say yes to proceed. So it will install
it for you. And then obviously you can
find the example how to use it. It's
very straightforward. Okay. So,
it's still installing. And once you
install, you can add this
checkbox from the UI checkbox. Something
like this. And save it. For this div,
we'll say key as a index. And if I go
back now, you will see six different
checkboxes. Perfect. Then
we'll add H2 tag. And inside this we'll
say test case dot
title.
Okay. So now you have the title as well.
And uh
I will just wrap this inside the due
because we also want to show a
description. So we'll say test case dot
description. Now for the description we
want to show it in a small. So we'll say
text access and text gray color. Let's
make it 500.
And then we want to bring these both the
things in one line. So I will add a div
to this one. And then here we'll make it
flex. Then gap to let's say three. And
then item to be in the center. See?
Okay. Now obviously we need to give some
uh padding and all. So let's add that
too. So over here maybe for this D only
we'll add a padding let's say four now
some space and then we'll also add a
border
I think we can add a border at either
bottom only okay so that you will see
this bottom border and if you want to
add a border to the complete uh section
you can add it to is due. So we'll say
class name border. Okay. Here
you can add a padding to four if you
want or let's me remove this border
because we can add a border to this
inside section as well. We'll so maybe
we can add it to this one. We'll just
say border. See? And then let's make it
little bit rounded. So we'll say rounded
to media.
Okay. Now after that on uh right side we
want to show a batch. Okay. Or if you go
to the UI shion and search for this
batch and this kind of badge we want to
show. So I will import that. Okay. And
then
once you import make sure to install
this batch component from the chaten and
here you have different different option
right now we want to show a type so
basically if you see this o flow UI this
type you want to add and on the right
side obviously uh we'll add a text
called pending okay uh we don't need to
show a time right now okay so we'll skip
that part but
over here
Let's add
a div.
And inside this div, we'll add a badge.
And inside the badge here, we'll say
test case dot
type. After that, we'll add another
badge.
And then we'll say test case dot
uh here we actually we just want to show
a status but right now we don't have the
column status so I will just add it as a
pending okay so here we'll say pending
now
right now here I will add a variant
as secondary and same variant I'm going
to add for the pending right now once
you run need or once it fail or pass
based on that we are going to change the
color okay see this color but for a
pending we'll just keep like that and if
I go back to our app you will see this
UI and pending now we want to move that
on the right side so now we have two div
right and this do we want to move to the
right so to this one we'll add a flex
then we'll make it item to be in the
center and make sure to justify between
so it will be on the right side but we
want want to give some space between
these two value. So over here we'll not
this one but for this div we'll add a
class name
and then u we'll add gap to let's say
four
and make sure to add a flex as well see
some space. Now one more important thing
we need to add after this pending is a
setting icon. Okay. So here I will add a
setting icon.
We say setting icon and
I will add a instead of just icon I will
wrap this inside a button component
and then we'll add a setting icon and
then to this button component I will say
a size as icon.
Okay. So this small icon obviously you
can change this size. So we'll say class
name
text to small
or they don't apply text. Let's add or
change this height and width and here.
So the idea about this icon is when you
click on it right you can add some
setting or some instruction
uh while implementing. For example there
is some authentication part. In that
case you have to provide some dummy
username and password. So you can add
inside the setting section.
Um here I will change this variant.
Oh for the button. So we'll say variant
as outline. Okay. So we have this
outline variant for that. Perfect. So
that's how the setting variant will
work.
But whichever uh test case you want to
run once you select it then so once you
select it we want to add a bottom
section where it will it it will have
option to run the selected uh
test cases. Okay. So
maybe out of this
we'll add another div and on the s2 tag
here we'll say run selected
test case
and then we'll add
button here we'll say run selected
and here I will add a plus I play icon
Okay. So if you see we have this section
but we want to add some style. So we'll
say padding to let's say four flex item
to be in the center and then justify
between.
So something like this I will change
this background color. So we'll say
background
uh let's say 100 some gray color. Okay.
So once you select it then you can click
on run selected button. Uh to this icon
I will add height to four width to four
and then you can add margin right to
let's say two.
Perfect. Okay. Now we only want to
enable this button if user select either
one of the check boxes. Right? Obviously
uh we need to maintain a state which
will store all the test cases or
selected test cases in order to execute
it. Right? Now if you see this test case
and the border is too close. So I'm
going to add margin top to let's say
three. So some space
and here I will change this color to
let's say text primary. it will change
to the primary color. I think uh that's
pretty good. Obviously, if you don't
have any um test cases, then it will uh
not show anything. Right now, it just
try to fetch it and if it's not there,
then it will show this test case
message. Uh the please wait indicator.
Um we need to update it little bit. We
need to add here class name with a flex
and then gap to three or two whatever.
And I will I also make item to be in the
center. So now if I open this you'll see
the loading indicator. So in this case
if I open it it's already fetch but yeah
that's fine. But right now I hope you
understand how beautifully we are
showing these test cases to execute.
Once user execute these test cases right
we are change the status in the database
and then once it is finished right uh
you can add a refresh button over here
so that you can check the status and if
the it's successfully executed then it
will show a success message and all
other detail.
Now uh quickly I'm going to add just
refresh button at the top inside the
test case list. So maybe you can wrap
this inside a div something like this.
And here we'll add a button.
I will add a refresh icon.
And here we'll say refresh.
So this is how it look like. But we want
to want that on right side also. I will
change this size to small.
And I will change this icon size to
let's say
height to three, width to three and
margin right to one.
And we want at the right side. So for
this div we'll add it make it flex item
to be in the center and then justify
between
perfect. So whenever you want you can
even have option to refresh it. So it
will fetch the latest updated data.
Right now this refresh button on click
you need to pass back. So here we'll say
on click
and on reload.
So here I will call this on reload.
Obviously we need to pass this method
back um to the parent component. So I
will pass back so that inside the user
uh repol list we can simply
fetch.
Oh where it is over here let me bring
this down
and then we'll say on reload. So
whenever you click on it this on reload
will execute and that case we need to
call this get test case method. So which
will return the latest information or
latest data right? So we'll say get test
cases.
Oh, so over here um we need to pass
that selected repo. Uh which one is the
selected one? Right. Maybe you can get
it from or let me go back to the test
case list. And here you can pass any of
the test case rep. Okay. So which you
can get it from the let's say test cases
of zero
we say test cases of zero dot repo id
okay so which will pass it to the this
one and here now let's provide any for
now
and now once
we have the repo id you can pass this
repo
id over Here you can pass the type as
number
and save it. Now if I click refresh you
will see it's saying please wait and
then it will fetch it immediately.
Perfect. Right. So that's how we have to
do. Now next obviously there are lot of
interesting things we want to implement.
Okay. But for now make sure you are at
this stage where you are fetching or all
the test cases which we generated and
save it in the database and then simply
display it in the proper UI format. Now
the last important thing before moving
to the next chapter is uh this selection
right now selection is quite
straightforward. uh inside our test case
list
we are going to define one constant here
we'll say handle run test case is equal
to
or instead of handle not handle here
we'll define a state for the new state
first here we'll say selected test cases
comma set selected
test cases is equal to use state.
Okay. And for this the type is the same.
So we'll say test case.
And then you just need to push it. Okay.
Whenever you select it. So inside the
check box
uh here we'll say on
check I will say
so maybe over here we'll say first on
check change
then whenever the check change right um
so over here we are going to add on
check change and for that one we're
going to simply handle the selected test
case. So here we will say handle
selected
test
case and then we need to pass whether is
a check or not. Okay. So this value we
are going to pass
to this method. Now we need to create
this method.
So we'll say constant
handle test case and then we'll say test
or not test case but here we'll say
check uh whether it's a check or not. So
this will be the boolean and also along
with this one we also want to get the
test case of type test case.
So make sure over here along with this
we have to pass the test case. So over
here we'll just pass the
test case. Okay. Now, oh, so here why I
don't know why we have this error.
So we have this error. It's saying that
argument of type string or boolean. So
over here we need to add an optional
the another or condition or with a
string or boolean. Okay. Now if it's
check right so basically in that case we
have to say set selected test case and
then from that
we'll say previous
and then dot dot dot previous and then
test case right it means we have to add
the element uh keeping all the existing
element and the new element so that's
the reason we added this previous and
test case. You can add a type any
or you can even add the test case type
that's completely fine. Otherwise, it
means user uncheck it and in that case
we'll set the set selected case. Then
here we'll say previous of type any and
we want to filter out the value. So we
say previous dot um
filter and then we'll say
oh let me over here. Okay that's
correct. So we'll say item
if item do ID is not equal to test case
do id. Okay. So here as well
and add a type any. So make sure uh if
it user uncheck it it means we have to
remove the element from our um set
selected test or sorry the from the
selected test case uh state. Okay
otherwise we have to add it and whenever
you check it so on check obviously we
have to uh check the condition in order
to show the check mark. So we'll say
selected test case dot sum if the
selected test case has some value. So
we'll say item then we'll say item do ID
matches with the test case dot id then
it will show it as a check. Now if I go
back and if I check this one see it
works um perfectly fine. But whenever uh
there is a no data right inside the
selected test case then in that case we
have to disable this run selected
button. So basically we'll add disable
and then
uh only when there is no selected test
cases.
So if I refresh this page
and right now if you see it is disabled
but as soon as I select right it should
work. Right now if you see we get some
error. So it's saying previous is not
iterable. So it means
we have to add an empty array to this
selected test case. Right? Otherwise it
will it don't know whether that's a
array or not. But
u okay so it's still showing run
selected. So maybe here we need to
little bit update update the condition.
So here we say if set selected test case
dotlength is equal to equal to or is not
equal to zero then you don't need to
show it. So let's save it.
Oh here is equal to zero only disable
when is zero. But if I add it then if
you see it's enabled. If I unselect it
then it will be disabled. And now as
soon as you add the test case which you
want to run, it is getting saved inside
our set selected test cases. Okay. So
that later on we can uh run those test
cases. But for now make sure you set up
with this all the data. Now quick things
I wanted to update that we already have
the number of test cases. So we can
update the total test as well and pass
and fail is not yet mentioned. So we'll
just leave it for now. But inside the
user post list at the top we already
have the total test cases mentioned. Um
either you can remove it from here or
you can define a state. So here we'll
say constant.
Then here we say status stats
data comma set
status data
is equal to use state.
Okay. Now here you can provide a type.
So here we'll say type
status
data
and inside this we'll say total number
per pass test and all of these test case
and then here we'll define this status
data type. Now
whenever we get the test cases right not
here. So when we get the test cases over
here we're going to set up those. So
maybe inside this we'll say set status
data
then total test is equal is equal to
result dot data.length if the is pass
right we already have test case type or
not type but we can for now we can just
set it as zero then fail test zero and
pass rate zero okay and then save it.
U by default you can also provide those
value okay zero for everything and don't
then we don't need this constant anymore
but rather we can simply now use a
status data
dot total test pass test fail test and
then pass rate so basically we replace
all the hard-coded value with a dynamic
data and if I open it u obviously you'll
see the total total test as a six and
obviously we don't have any value for
this but later on we'll update it. So
that's uh all for this particular
chapter. If you have any question any
doubt uh let me know in the comment
section. Now don't forget to push your
changes to the uh GitHub. So we'll go
back and inside this we'll create a new
branch
and inside that we'll say get
or we'll say generate
test cases
and display.
So make sure to enter it so it will get
check out. You can stage all of the
change
and then give the commit message. Once
you commit uh we'll publish this branch.
Then we'll go back to our repo
and inside that you will find an option
to create the pull request. You can even
create the pull request by going to the
pull request and there as well you will
find this option to create a new pull
request. Then click create pull request.
Now plan arc will start u reviewing your
code. And if you see we got the coming
from the uh plan arc that it started
reviewing your code and within a few
seconds very fast uh plan already uh
added the summary about what are the
changes you make. So if you see we added
this generated test case and we
integrate the Gemini HDK and many other
things and also you will see the
complete inline um changes. Now another
important thing we want I wanted to show
that it also show how many token it use.
Okay. So that you will see and you can
track all your token by going to the
setting and inside the setting we have
the credit and billing section. Here you
will find that how many credit remaining
how many use. Okay. Now with the free
account you will get up to 10,000s of
credit. But if you want more please let
me know. I will give you the promo code
in order to add extra credits. Okay? But
you have to comment down in the comment
section related to the plan AR and
definitely I will comment the coupon
code uh in order to add extra credits to
your account.
Now we have to add some setting option
to our project. Currently uh in order to
execute this test case we have to add
some proper instruction which we already
have but in certain cases user has to
add some um additional instruction or
some customized instruction to each of
the test cases. So we already added this
setting button and on the click of this
setting button we want to open a
dialogue on that we are going to add
some basic information which user can
update it. Also in order to execute
these test cases right on a in a real
browser we have to give or provide uh
the website URL or app domain right so
that AI or browser base can test our
application on that particular URL. So
these few things we are going to update
in this chapter. So on the click of this
setting we are going to open a dialogue
and on that we are going to add certain
um field to update it. So let's go back
to our application
and inside this
uh let's go to this component where we
are showing the setting icon. So here we
have test case list and then
we have a setting icon. Now on the click
of it we want to open a dialogue. So
we'll create a dialogue. So here we'll
say test case setting
u dialogue dot tsx file. Then add
default template and then save it. Now
we already installed the dialogue. Only
thing we need to do from the shar we are
going to uh add the example use case.
So first I will copy this import
statement.
Then we'll copy this example
so that we can update according to our
need. Now for the dialog trigger in
order to open a dialogue you can use
this button directly. So I will cut it
from here and then I will put inside
this dialog trigger. Make sure to import
this button component and the setting
icon from the lucid react. After that
you need to use this dialogue component
over here. So it will show the button
and on the click of button it will open
the dialogue. So let me reload this app.
Now once you reload open this and then
you will see the dialogue. Perfect. Now
next thing let's customize this uh
content for the dialogue. So here we'll
add a title as edit testing
requirements
and then and then in the description I
already copy the description so that
description will add it. Okay, after
that inside the dialog content we'll add
a div and inside the div let's add
another div because we want to add few
field here we'll say label and then
we'll say test title. Okay, so what will
be the test title? Let's add an input
field.
You can add a placeholder as well and
you can write test title
and then save it. So if I go back you
will see uh the test title and along
with its input field you can add
for this class name you can add margin
top to one. So some space between the
text and the title. For the label I will
change this
to text gray color
little light. I make it 500.
Now in the same way we have to add four
a few more field. I will copy this due
and I will add four more times. Now here
we need to add a description.
So description /action. Now all of these
field which we added we already have the
data for it when we generate the each
test case. So if I go to the any of the
repo and sorry any of the test cases
right over here
for example for this one if you see we
have the title we have the description
along with that we also have expected
result as well right and then target
route everything is there. So that's
what we have to u update it if user want
to update any information. Now instead
of input I will add it as a text area.
So if don't have the text area from the
chat scen let's add it quickly. So I
will go to the text area component copy
this uh command in order to install it.
Say yes to proceed and then it will
install it for you. Once it is
installed, you can simply
set the test area.
Now it is installed. So we'll add the
text area now. Okay. And here we'll say
description and then save it. After this
we'll add a target route. So here we say
target
route on which we need to add a test
case or we'll say path
and here we'll say
target route whether that's index or any
other and the last but not least
expected
result.
And here as well we'll change this to a
text area.
So
I will use the similar text area.
Let's change this. Perfect. And then
save it. Now if I go back to our
application, you will see all of this
field. Okay. But obviously you need to
give some margin from the top. So here
we say margin top to two. So let's see
how it looks. Let's deal a little bit
more
and copy this same margin top or uh
telling CSS classes for each of the div
and save it. Okay. After this we need to
add a button to update or close it. And
then after dialogue maybe inside the
dialogue content we need to add a
dialogue footer. And then inside the
footer we'll add a button
one will say cancel
or we can change this button. Uh here we
can add dialogue close as a button.
Okay.
and then another button
to save it or we'll say update case
and save. Right now if you see we have
these two button u you can change this
button as well with a variant as a
outline
and I will close the tag over here. So
now we have the cancel button and update
case button. Now here whichever test
case you select we want to open the
content inside those. Okay.
So let's add that.
So whenever you open right we need to
get the selected test case. So here
we'll say selected test case.
I will just add test case. Um
I think we need to give a type as a
props
and let's define a type prop as a test
case and here the test case type need to
be a test case
from the user repo list because we
already exported the type from there.
Now uh once we have the test case right
we will save this in one state. So we'll
say constant
um
form test case. We'll say set form test
case
is equal to use state. Okay. And for
this one
let's keep it empty for now. And inside
this we'll add an empty string. And then
we'll say title, description, target
route and expected result and everything
we will get it from the test case. Okay.
So that's how we have to add it and then
save it. Now for this all the input
value now you can provide a value from
the form test case dot title. Then for
this one we'll say form test case dot
description.
For this we'll say value form test case
dot target route and then last but not
least
form test case
dot
expected result. Okay and now if I go
back to any of this setting you will see
we have the title description index and
expected result at to populate. Okay. So
that's how you have to add. Now anything
you can update it according to your
need. And right now if I try to update
anything it will not allow me. See right
I even though if I enter the any uh
keyboard keys it will not allow. That's
because we don't have the on change
event to any of this field. Now to
implement that
so for each of them we'll add on value
change. So here we will say on or sorry
the on change event. So it will emit the
event and then you can even directly set
uh the specific
um value. Okay. So you have two option
either you can call one method which is
the easiest not easiest but which is the
uh good way to define it. So here we'll
say handle input
input change and then you have to
provide the field name which is the
title and then the respective value. So
here we'll say event dot target dot
value. Now this hand input change is not
defined yet. So we'll define that.
Okay. And here we'll say fill name of
type string and then value of time
string.
Now once you have that uh method
implement I will copy that everywhere
and we'll paste it. But only thing that
you need to change is the uh field name.
So in this case we'll say description.
Then here we'll say
target route.
And then last we have the expected
result.
Okay. Now over here we're going to
simply say set form test case.
Then we need to make sure the all the
previous value is there. And then
inside that we'll keep the previous
value. And then we need to add or we
need to change the value for that
particular field name. So we'll say
field name colon value. And that's how
uh you have to set the value. After that
we have this submit button or sorry the
update case button and on that we need
to call an API. So here we say constant
update case and the arrow function and
then I will simply going to add on click
event to this
and we'll call this update case. Now
update case with what what it will do
whatever the we have inside the form
test case that we are going to pass um
to the API endpoint right so inside this
API we'll create a new API called uh set
test case setting test
or we'll just add a test cases we
already have uh this endpoint maybe
inside the test cases only we'll add
a setting as a new
uh endpoint point. So let's create a
folder. So we'll say test
case setting
or let's just add
test uh settings
tsx or ts. Oh my bad. Here we need to
add
the folder name just settings. And then
inside this we'll add route.tsx tsx file
or ts file. Now inside that we'll say
export a sync function then post
request. Here we say request
with the next request and the function.
Inside this we need to get uh all the
body parameter or you can say body or
you can get the title then the
description
target route expected result and then
the repo ID and inside that repo ID we
also have the test case ID. So for
example um you can pass this ID okay
because that's the only thing that it
differentiate right. So that what we are
going to pass.
So we can call it as a test ID. Test
case id.
Okay. So that's how you have to add it.
Then in order to update your database
simply we are going to write constant
uh result is equal to await db dot
update. Then which table you need to
update which is a test cases table dot
set and inside that we'll pass a type
description target route and the
expected result right but here you need
to add a wear condition
inside this we need to add equal to from
the result and then we'll say test case
table dot
id matches with the test case id that's
all you don't need this repo id. So I
will remove that and then save it. So
once it is updated
you can return the next response dot
JSON with the result and in order to get
some um updated record in the result you
can say returning.
Okay so it will return the updated
record back and here you can just simply
add of zero. So it will only return that
first um object. Okay. Now after this
let's go back and then to our test
setting dialogue and we have to make
sure after update it will refresh uh the
uh test cases right but before that
let's make the API call so it will
update it so here we'll say constant
result is equal to await axios dot post
and then inside that we'll say / ai/
test cases
and then we need to pass all the form
test cases value. So we'll pass it like
this. And for the test case id, we can
get it from the test case do ID here.
Let's mark this as a async.
And if you want you can verify the
result by consoling that result dot
data. Okay. And then we have to refresh
it. You can even show the proper toast
notification message that the test case
is updated. But here don't forget to uh
I will say set reload
and this set reload I'm going to pass
back to the parent component.
So here we say test oh sorry set
reload
let add that of type any okay so here we
are just updating now inside the test
case list if you see we got error means
something is missing and that's why
TypeScript will give you what is missing
and what not here um again for the set
reload you can again pass set reload to
okay we have this on reload already so
we can call on reload over here okay on
the click of set reload and then save
it. Now let's test this out. Let me
refresh this complete app. Then we'll
open this. Right now if you see test
case loaded. Now let's open any
settings. And here we will say verify
project card display index project card
match the count and content defined in
lib do data
and make sure
spelling
is correct. So we can write something
like this and just click update case.
Once you click update case you will see
it refreshed the data. Okay. But let me
open it and we just updated I think this
one and not this one. Okay. So we
updated this verify project card
display. If I open it and then you will
see the lib data and then we also added
make sure spelling is correct. It means
our test cases is now updating. Okay. So
that's how uh you have to update it.
Obviously here we have refresh button to
refresh it any time. But make sure on
the click of setting uh whichever thing
you want to update just update it and
then uh you are good to go. Okay. Now
you can select whichever test case you
want and click run select. But before
that it is very important to add the
repo levels setting option so that you
can add any authentication u uh data
like if your application need a sign in
or sign up right you can add a username
password there.
also uh the application URL that part is
also important while executing any test
cases.
Now just above the status card we want
to add a section for the repo config.
Okay or project config we can call. So
let's go back to our application
and inside that we have this workspace
body or not workspace body my bad. So we
need to go go to the user report list uh
repo list and inside this if you see
about the status card um we can add
those. So maybe over here let's add a do
and inside that just add a text called
settings so that you will see where we
are actually adding those option. And
right now if you see this setting thing
perfect now here
uh first
I will add a div inside that we'll add a
globe icon
then
we'll add H2 tag and here we'll say
target
domain so on which domain you want to
run these test cases right so that's
what we added and then
we'll add the domain name.
Right now we don't have any domain name
added right. So we have to update that
domain name. If it's not there obviously
we have to uh update it. So inside the
schema file uh on the repo level we have
to add the
domain name. So here we'll say target
domain and then we'll say vcare
with a target domain. Okay. And then
save it. You can set the default value
to let's say http localhost. So here
we'll say uh I will just copy this local
host value
as a default one. Okay. And then save
it. Now obviously if you are updating
this right you need to update your
schema. So we'll go back and here we'll
simply going to update our schema.
So let's run this push command as once
you update I will also run the studio to
verify it's there. So if I refresh it
for the repo level you will see a domain
called target domain. Now let's use
this.
So we have this target domain added. So
I will go back over here which we can
use it in order to display the target
domain. Now obviously maybe inside the
type we don't have that
uh target domain defined. So inside the
user repo you can add this type called
target domain as a string so that you
can use inside this. So we'll say repo
dot target domain and save it. So if I
go back to our application
um here it will display the target
domain but u make sure to refresh
because it's fetching from the database.
And once you have that
you can simply add some styling.
So over here first I will say a class
name. I will add a background gray 50.
Then I will also add some padding.
And then we'll say border
with a rounded corner. So we'll say
rounded excel. And then save it. After
that,
oh let's move this to the parent view.
And for this one, we'll just say flex
then gap to three item to be in the
center. So let's see how it looks.
Perfect.
Now for this H2 tag, I will add a class
name. We'll say a background white with
a padding to one, padding X to two, and
then a border to it with a rounded
um medium.
Perfect. This look good, right? And you
can change this color. So here we say
text primary and then font medium. So
just to give a better look. And for this
icon as well, I'm going to change the
icon color. So we'll say class name
text
primary here instead of global icon. I
don't know which icon we need to add.
But let's add this link to icon. I think
that is also look good.
Yeah, that's look good. And then we have
target domain. Now on the right hand
side, we'll add a button.
So here we'll say button
and then we call it as a project config.
We can add a setting icon. So we'll say
setting
with a class name height to four, width
to four and margin right to one.
So we have this button. Now we can move
that on the right side. So maybe make it
flex or not here. I think that is
already good. But for this one, we'll
make it flex and then justify between
along with item to be in the center. So
it will be on the right side. Okay. So
you can easily uh click on this one in
order to configure your uh project level
uh settings. Now on the click of this
project config
uh we want to open a dialogue and on the
dialogue we want to add an option to
update the domain and user have option
to update the instruction as well. So I
will create a new custom component
and we can call it this as repo
settings.
So this is a repo level setting okay or
project level setting we can call. Let's
add a default uh template. Then for the
dialogue component,
we'll copy this import statement from
the chat documentation and then the
dialog settings.
Something like this. Now obviously you
can um import
the dialogue directly inside the repo
setting as a repo setting component. And
then in order to trigger this dialogue I
will use this button component similar
the way which we implemented for the
test case dialogue. Right now over here
I will change this and we'll call it as
a project
/reo
settings.
Uh if you want you can add icon
and let's see how it looks.
Oh, somehow it reload again. And then
you can go to this project config. And
if you see, we have this beautiful uh
heading. But for this title, we'll say
make it flex gap to two item to be in
the center. So it will be in one line.
Um for this setting, I will change this
color to let's say text primary.
Then for the description, I already
copied one. So I will paste the
description as it is. So this is how it
look like. After that
we'll add a div just before after the
header. And then
I will add another div for a label. And
inside the label we'll say app
URL or /default
website.
Then we want to add an input field. So
we'll say input
here we'll say placeholder as app url/d
domain
then for this one I will add a class
name we'll give margin top to one and
then I will copy this do again and here
label I will change this to
global test instruction.
So inside the global test instruction
you can add like authentication
parameter or some cookies instruction or
anything like that. Okay, instead of
input I will change this to a text area
and here we will say instructions
and save it.
Now obviously we need to give some
margin. So here we will say margin top
to four. So some space and for this
label I will change the text color to
let's say gray
500 and I will copy those for the
instruct the global test instruction
label as well and then at the end we
want to give a save config option. Now
you can also add some small u note about
what this is. So I will add a small P
tag and I will make this text extra
small and we'll change this color to
let's say gray 400 something like this.
See so with the extra instruction and
same thing I'm going to do for this one
as well
and we'll copy the same class name over
here. Perfect. And then we can add a
button. So we'll say dialog footer and
inside the dialog footer we'll say
dialog
close component. Inside this we'll add a
button let's say cancel. We'll change
this variant to outline only. And we'll
add another button
to save it.
And right now if you see we have these
two button instead of save we'll say
save
config. Perfect. Now on the close
obviously it close it. But if I open it
then you have this option.
Now we already added a default website
or um the target website fill name.
Right? But along with that one we also
want to add the instruction as a new
column. So basically I will go back to
the schema file and inside this we can
add
um
instruction. So we'll say global
instruction with a text as a global
instruction. Okay. And then save it. So
user can add whatever the instruction he
want. Then once you add this new column,
you can update your schema
and then you can run the studio so that
now you have the global instruction as a
new uh uh field. But don't forget to
update inside your type as well because
we need this parameter.
Now this is optional. You can add a
question mark to make those as optional.
Now
inside this obviously we need to get
some default value if it's already
inside the uh database. So from the user
repo list where we are using that
dialogue uh the repo setting dialogue
right. So over here we'll pass a repo
inform information. So we'll say repo as
it is and then inside the repo setting I
will accept this as a repo and then
we'll say type props. We'll define a
type
props as
repo and then user
repo as a type. Then you can provide a
default value for each of these input
field. So we'll say repo dot the default
value but we want to also update those
uh input similar like this. So we'll
define a state. So we'll say repo uh
settings comma set repo
settings
is equal to use state
and by default I'm going to add a target
domain as a setting and then global
instruction is the another field. Okay.
So only these two field we needed and
inside the input now you can use uh repo
settings dot target domain and for this
one we'll say repo settings dot global
instruction.
Now for each of them we need to add on
value change method. So we'll add on
change. Now inside the onchange
obviously it will emit the event e. Then
you can directly set the value. So we'll
say set repo setting. Then inside that
we'll say we have to keep all the repo
setting and then the target domain will
be e dot
target dot value. As simple as that okay
same thing I will copy it and I will
paste for this instruction on change.
Okay. So here as well we added the
instruction on change. Now on the click
of save config we want to save it. So
here we'll say constant
handle save setting. So right now this
is just a instruction uh added or
suggested by the AI. So I just click
tab. So it will display it. Now this
particular method we need to attach to
this save config something like this and
then save it. Now again we need to
create an API endpoint in order to save
those. So I will go to the reports. Uh
let's go to the user repo and inside
that we'll create a setting as a API
endpoint and then we'll create a route
ts file. Here we'll say export a sync
function. This is a post request.
So we'll say request next request and
the arrow the function here we'll say
constant.
Um we need a repo id.
You can also get the user id then the
target domain and then global
instruction. Okay. So that everything we
are getting from the uh post body. Then
inside this in order to update you can
simply say await db dot update.
Then you need to update the report
table. So I will just check what is the
name. So this is called a repositories
only.
Then here we say set
and inside that you need to pass target
domain and instruction. But don't forget
to add where clause and only things that
you need to update or only record you
need to update. So here we'll say
repository dot repo ID and then repo ID.
That's all.
Now once you have the repo id
then you can simply return the updated
result and then here we'll return
next response dot json with result and
then save it. So we don't need user ID
but remember if you use authenticated
information then you can protect your
all the API route as well. Okay. So that
is also important. Now once you save it
then uh you can go back to repo setting
and here you can call this method. So
we'll say constant
result is equal to await
axios dot
post and the setting option.
Now inside this we need to pass the body
parameter like repo and obviously repo
id target domain and global instruction
that we'll get it from this uh state
here we are using a let's make this as a
sync
and then once you get the result you can
console this result if you want okay
just for the testing purpose and then uh
you need to reload your project so over
here we'll set the reload as a
function so that we can pass back.
So over here we'll say repo oh sorry u
set reload. So we'll say set reload and
make sure to pass this prop as well. Now
inside the user repo list we'll get the
set reload and make sure to uh update or
get this repo information. Right? So you
have to pass back again because this is
again a child of some parent.
So let's do that.
Now once you have this set reload you
can pass back again.
So at the top I will pass it
and for the prop
we say avoid. Now again inside the
workspace body that's where we are
fetching the user uh repo right. So here
we need to call this method.
So we'll say
get user repo get user added repo.
Maybe you can call something like this
as well and then save it.
Now let's go back
and then if I update this project config
and I already have domain so I will
paste it. Uh if you have any extraction
you can add those instruction. So let me
type it here. Oh so over here if you
click on the project config if I update
the website it allowing me. But here if
I type the instruction is not that's
because inside the repo setting we use
this same uh target domain. We have to
update this field to let's say global
instruction. Okay. So that you can
update it now. So here you can add the
global instruction if you want. So he
will say no instruction for now. It's
not mandatory. And then click save
config. Once you click save config, we
have to make sure you will close this
dialogue. Currently it's not closing
this dialogue for some reason. But we'll
update it. But here if you see now the
target domain is updated. If I click
project config again you will see all
your field value as it is. Now in order
to close those dialogue right we need to
add one state inside the repos setting
dialogue and inside this we'll at the
top we'll say constant is open comma set
is open to false and to this dialogue um
we have open and then we'll set is open
also this open value change on open
change method. So over here you can add
set is open with the open value. Now
once uh it's saved right we need to
close the dialogue. So basically
inside the handle save setting
you can add or you can just add set is
open to false. So what we it will happen
if I go to the project config click save
config and then it close and obviously
it will also reload your uh repo list.
So that's how you have to update your
repolish settings and the test case
setting which is for the individual one.
So that's all uh for this particular
chapter. If you have any question let me
know in the comment section. Now don't
forget to push your code to the GitHub
so that planark.dev will uh review your
code and if there is some high um
warnings or errors make sure to fix it.
So let's create a new branch quickly.
Here we'll say repo and test case
settings.
Then add or stage all of these changes.
Then I will add a commit message. Say
commit and then publish your branch.
Then I will go back to my
GitHub and inside that I will say
compare and pull request. create a pull
request and then once the pull request
is created
you will see the plan immediately start
reviewing your code without doing any
further delay and it's so fast that it
will also give within some millisecond
or in within few seconds you'll get the
summary what are the changes you made
how many token it used and all the
instruction perfect right so that's how
planark will help you to review your
code and as you know that anytime you
can go to your plan dashboard to review
your all the changes at one place.
Pretty cool, right? So, make sure uh to
join the plan.dev and finish this
chapter. Also, don't forget to merge
your pull request. So, I will click this
confirm and merge so that it will be
inside your main branch.
In this chapter, we are going to set up
a browser base inside our application.
Now till this point we have generated
our test cases using AI but generating
the test cases is only the first part.
The real magic happen when you can
actually run those test cases inside the
real browser interact with the
application click button fill the forms
check navigation and verify the expected
result and that's where the browser base
comes in. Browserbase give us a cloud
browser that you can control using a
playright. So instead of running the
browser only on your local machine, we
can create a browser session in the
cloud connect it using a playrite and
write a script and execute it on uh
depends on the session. So obviously
whatever the AI generated test script we
have we can run it in a real browser
environment. So it has a lot of
different uh API available like search
API, fetch API and browser as a service.
Browserbase is useful because it give us
a cloud browser session play support
session recording and debugging browser
automation at scale and better way to
run AI browser agent and automate your
test case and that's what we are going
to look browser base also is not not
just any ordinary
uh test case tool but it actually help
us to build your a AI agent which will
never
It also authenticate your application
where other API cannot reach. Then you
can uh keep the browser base on
throughout or using a cloud. So it will
do some researching for you behind the
scene. Also the most important thing
solving the capture everything can be
done using the browser base and there
are lot of different use case you'll
find right now. Um if you click the link
in the description to get a free access
to the browser base and then simply
create a new account. Once you create a
account simply login it and then you
will jump onto the browser base
workspace where on the left hand side
you will see all the overview. Now I
already connected to my any lot of
personal application where browser base
I'm using for uh in order to test it
some of the cases. Now here you can see
all the session uh which you executed
right we have the function if you want
to create and the most interesting part
is running the function right now if you
see we have the small script added here
you can see the in order to test this
out you can add whichever the script you
want okay and then you can execute it in
order to test this out now this is a
simple example that it's launching a
browser and then it's connected and then
setting a time result. So if you want to
uh let's say visit hacker news right so
there is few line of code that you need
to add obviously this code is nothing
but the script which which we are
already generating okay or we are going
to generate this script in order to
execute inside the browserbased API and
uh obviously this uh script we are going
to run in a real browser using the
browserbased sessions and then uh once
you click run you will see on the right
hand side the actual execution. Below
that you will see console. Over here it
start launching the browser connected
and success. So at the top you will see
an actual preview. Now the interesting
part is it also record the session means
whatever happens right it will record
the session and anytime you can check
that out. Okay. So that's how easy it
is. Now let's say I have one website
called tubeji.com. If you want to get a
free access to the tube guruji, you can
just go ahead and check it out. There
are lot of free courses and the source
code along with this project source code
is also available on the tube guruji.
Now in order to verify some of the
things on the tube goji landing page, I
already wrote a script and generated by
AI only. So I will paste this script. So
let me stop it first and then I will
paste this script. Basically in this
script uh first it will go to the
tube.com. Then it will consol it that it
successfully navigated. Then it will
test some navigation link. Okay. By
clicking on those link okay and it will
wait for some time to get the response.
And if you see there is some small code.
Now you don't need to understand each
line by line things. Okay. Because this
script we are generating inside our
application using an AI and then you
will see uh the complete execution. So
there are total three test cases which
I'm going to execute. Now once I click
run you will see on the right hand side
it will start opening the tubeji website
and if you see at the top it open the
tube guruji website at the bottom you
will see the complete execution right
starting a getting cta and lot of other
things now right now it get failed test
case that getting toucha button should
be visible and it's missing right and
that's what uh we have to fix it and
then again you can run it so that's why
browser base is quite important in the
IT industry and many IT companies start
using uh this browser base as well in
order to do the automation testing and
there are lot of use case as I say okay
now in order to integrate that inside
the application
uh we have to write some code so let's
go back
and very first thing what we'll do we'll
create an API key so here you have
option to copy the API key. If you don't
have, you can create a new one or you
can go to the setting and from here you
will see a project ID and the API key
which you can copy and save it inside
your um env file. So I will copy this
project ID. Then I will go to the env
file and inside this
I will say browser base
API key is equal to and we'll paste this
key. After that I will also write a
project key or this is a project key
actually not a API key. So I will rename
this to project ID. And then we also
need a browser base
API key and then we have to add this
key. Now here you can update the setting
and all. It's totally up to you. You
will get a free usage as well um once
you click the link in the description.
Okay? So that you can test this out
inside your u application which you are
developing.
Now let's understand how this browser
script will execute.
So once user click on run the test cases
based on the all the whichever the test
case user selected we will check if for
those uh test cases the script is
already generated or not. If not then we
need to generate the script based on the
route which we have and the file content
which we will get it from the uh GitHub
API. And then once we have that then
we'll create and we'll generate the
script and then we'll create a
browserbased session on the cloud. It
means we are going to create uh the
actual session or actual um browser on
the cloud. Okay. And which will uh
contains our script to execute and once
the script is executed then we'll uh log
the all the result. Now we already saw
the example in the playground how this
session works. So whichever uh example
you execute right it will create a new
session let's say um let's add this
right a to-do list okay which contain
the item and then uh it added a to-do
list it will create a new item into that
and when you click run it will create a
new session so if I click run on the
right hand side you will see an actual
implementation here we have the browser
log as well but right now if you see you
it actually implementing ing, clicking
the drop-down, adding the elements and
everything. And that's everything we are
going to implement inside our app. And
this is executed with the help of script
only. Pretty cool, right? And then once
you are done with the execution, you can
stop the session. And here you will see
the session is now saved. You can view
the session. Inside the session, it
actually record the complete execution.
If I run this, you will see how it opens
uh the to-do website. Then it add the
data. If you see multiple data is added
or to-do item added and then you will
see the complete result. Whichever is
done it mark as a complete those uh all
the execution is already written in the
script and that's what we are
implementing.
So this is the complete workflow. Now
the code to run this test cases or
generate or everything is too big. So I
already wrote the script for you and we
need to add that inside the / API test
case run which will generate your
um script as well as execute it. So I
will copy this code as it is. Then we'll
go back inside our um project and under
the test cases we'll add a new API
endpoint called run. Inside this we'll
create a route.ts
and then simply paste the code which you
copied here. Remove these three strings
something like this and then save it.
Now before that we also need to make
sure we will add the browserbased uh
SDK. Okay. So you can just search on the
browserbased documentation. I will put
the link in the description or it also
provide the npm package which you can
copy and paste it and install it. Okay.
So here I will install this browserbased
HDK and also install the playright core.
So npmi playright core this package I
have to install. And if you see now
error is gone. So this browser HDK and u
this chromium package you need to add in
order to execute it. Now inside this um
route.ts file in order to run the test
case we define the Gemini AM model along
with the browserbased API key. Then
first we'll read the all the GitHub file
which is belong to that particular test
case because inside our DB we already
have the test case route. Okay. So which
are the what are the files it needed. So
inside the target file um we're going to
pass those file so that it will read the
GitHub file content and it will return
it through this function. Then we have
the post API call. From the post API
call it will get some basic uh um body
request like test case ID, base URL and
all. Then it will fetch the test case
for from the database directly. After
that it will fetch the repo repo setting
for the global instruction because
whatever the authentication instruction
added or website URL added that
information will fetch it because that
also we need to pass and then uh we need
to check if the script is already there
or not. If it's not there then we need
to generate it. So uh this cookie store
basically used to fetch the data from
the GitHub file. And if you see this
read GitHub file is there right? So once
we have all of the data it's mapping uh
properly and once it map with the file
path and content then we are basically
uh writing the prompt but if you see we
have also have the global instruction
and the temporary instruction which we
are adding inside the prompt. Now you
can modify the prompt as per your um
requirements. It's totally up to you how
you want to design, right? But u if you
want to make a test case in more detail
then you can add that in a prompt. So
every time it will create a more
detailed test case. This is a moderate
to one medium kind of uh difficulty test
case it will create but you can make it
easy as well. Then uh we have the GNA
model. I think it look like G& model is
old one. So let me update that model. So
in order to update you can go to the
Google's Gemini and you can copy the
model which you like.
So over here I will add that model.
After this u it will generate the
script. Okay. And then the generated
code we are saving into our database and
we'll also updating the status
as it running. So it will know that okay
the current test case is running or not.
Okay with that status then the main
important part is creating a browser
session. So it's very easy. So because
we've already define the browser base
instance at the top then we have
session.create and then we need to pass
the project ID the API key we already
pass at the top. Then
uh it will connect to the chromian
connect over CDP. Okay. because we are
creating this session on the cloud and
then we have to u get the context and
pages and we have to listen the console
log event where whatever is executing
and all right so that information we are
getting after that
over here if you see we are passing the
script text so whatever the script we
generated that script we are passing so
that it will execute that script and
then once it run we'll get a proper log.
After that once we get the log we need
to save it to our database. Currently we
need to update our schema so that it
will save the log file. So inside the
case test test case table. So let's go
to the test case table and here we'll
add a log
and then we'll say test log. So it will
add a test information or sorry the test
it will say logs actually. So it should
be a logs.
So in the table we added this logs.
Let's save this. I don't know why it's
still showing the error. So it's saying
log might be an undefined. So if I add a
string, I don't know
it's not doing anything. Let's keep it
for now as it is. And then once it
updated the log into our uh database
then it will return the response which
you can show it inside your log. Okay,
that will implement how the UI will look
like. And then here we have updated
status in the database if it fails or
success depends on that. Okay, so that's
all uh this error because it's if you
hover on this one is try to save the
string list. So maybe what we can do we
can uh I don't know whether we have the
type any or
we need to save it as a JSON B and then
the string type if you see we got the
suggestion. So this particular type we
need to define
and then we also need to save the
session ID of type var and the session
URL. Now this session URL helpful in
order to check or view your um recorded
uh session. Now let's update this status
as well. So in order to update it here I
will say test case dot status because we
already added the type uh or the updated
this field inside our type over here uh
we'll change this variant. So based on
the condition we'll say test case dot
status is equal equal to let's say fill
and and I will put simply then we'll
show this batch and we'll make this
variant to destructive. So you will see
the variant destructive it's quite big
so for this div I will make item to be
in the center. So now it's perfect. You
can change the color text color. So,
we'll say text white.
Perfect. Or make it uh red. Let's say
400.
Or make it 200.
Perfect. And you don't need uh you can
just make it
font
normal.
Okay, that's look good. Now for the
success as well I will copy the same
condition and everything but here if
it's pass
then I will change this to green and we
don't want we'll keep the default
variant
something like this but if you want you
can change the background color so we'll
say text
green background
Oh, I need a background to be green.
Okay, this is good. And for the run uh
other things like if it's running,
right, you can show in the yellow color.
So if it's running because we also have
the running status then you can keep
this default but here I will change this
to
yellow
and here as well I will change this to
yellow.
Okay. So when it's running then it will
show it as a yellow. I think that's all.
If you want to add any other status you
can add it. Next once you have the
status and all right uh you have to
update this uh actual value for the card
right how many are pass how many are
failed and so that you can make the
change and run those failed test case
again but in order to update that you
have to simply
go back to the user ripple list where we
are showing the status right and
currently we are just calculating the
total status but once we have the result
dot data right in that we have the all
the status we'll find all the pass one
all the fail one and then total passing
rate so over here first we'll keep save
this result so we say constant uh
user test cases is equal to result dot
data then we'll add constant
pass test is equal to user test cases
dot filter and then we'll say test case
dot status if it's pass then then we'll
get the length if it fail then also we
get the length and for the pass rate
we'll do a pass test how many pass test
divide by total test into 100 right in
order to calculate the percentage and
then you can write pass test then fail
test and then pass rate if I save this
one then you can simply update it. I
think it's already there. Let me
check it out. And over here if you see
total six test one is pass, three are
fail and pass range is 70%. Because we
did not execute any other. For example,
if you want to execute this one and this
one, you can click run test case. You
will see both are now selected and it
will execute it one by one.
Right now I execute the first one and if
you see it started executing now due to
some reason the if you see the first one
is fail and the second one is pass. Okay
in the first one uh if I go over here
it's saying found six potential social
link and then it will give you what is
the actual error. So it's saying script
execution fail the link is missing. So
this particular link is missing from the
security relation and obviously it means
that we have to fix it. We did not added
a proper link and that's why we got the
error. Okay. If you close this one and
ref and execute you will see now pass is
two and total fail are four. Now we
execute all of them. Obviously if you
try to execute it again it will fail it
until unless you are you are making some
changes or you are updating the
instruction as well. Okay. So that's how
guys you have to uh automate your test
cases. uh in the IT industry this
application is a best way uh to um
implement the AI test automation inside
your uh GitHub project. If you any
question any doubt let me know in the
comment section. Now let's push our
code. So we'll create a new branch. I
will give the branch name and we can
call it as
browser base setup and run test case.
Here I will add and after this enter it.
So it will get check out stage all of
these changes. I will give the commit
message and then simply click commit.
After that don't forget to publish your
branch. Then go to your GitHub uh
account and inside this you'll get an
option to create a pull request. Make
sure to create a pull request so that
plan arc uh will review your code using
an AI with proper u PR summary which you
can also uh check it out from the plan
dashboard. And here you will see
the comment also left and it it also
explained that what the things are
implemented in this particular PR along
with the all the comments and after this
u you can simply merge your pull
request.
Okay. So that uh next time you will
create new branch all of these changes
will be there.